These are the notes and rough drafts for my upcoming book called Moral Responsibility.

---

JMJ

# Introduction

For a while, I was very reluctant to write this book. I've believed for
many years that there are already too many books, blogs, newspapers, and
people who seem to think their ideas and opinions are more important and
useful than they actually are. I'm still convinced this is true, and
would be glad to see a dramatic decrease in words written or spoken in
the world. This is why I deleted my blog and serious social media pages
many years ago. But a few things have caused me to think it's now my
moral responsibility to write this book.

First, many people have asked me to write this book. And not only that,
but they have told me that the ideas and perspectives they've heard from
me, they've never heard anywhere else, ever. To some degree, I think
this is because I've read a whole lot more than most of them, but some
ideas in this book are my own, or at least I've never read them before
that I know of. So maybe they're right.

Second, and probably more importantly, everything in this book has been
a valuable survival guide for me, and I hope to share it with you. If
not for following what I have outlined here, I would be a much worse
person than I am now. That's not to say I'm a good person; I make
countless mistakes every day. But I know for a fact that I'm better than
I was likely to become without the ideas in this book. The concepts here
prevent me from falling deeper into blindness, they help to unblind me
more and more each day, and if I do fall into some blindness, they help
me out of it relatively quickly.

I've seen people remain thirty, forty, fifty years in blind foolishness
that everyone around them can see right through, yet they themselves
can't find their way out of it for the life of them, nor do they even
consciously recognize the fact of their mental imprisonment itself.
Someone once said that the best way to keep someone in prison is to
prevent them from realizing they are in prison at all. The ideas here
have spared me from going more than a few days or weeks in such blind
cluelessness, and have helped me to climb out of it relatively quickly.

To some degree, this book has to include some apologetics, since I'll
need to prove and defend the basics that I'm relying on in the same book
that relies on them. I really wanted to publish them in a separate book,
but the concepts are fairly intertwined, and I'd have to explain them
here to some degree anyway, so I might as well devote an entire section
on it. But since I don't want to simply repeat other apologetics books,
I'll do it briefly, presenting the strongest arguments I've ever heard,
and my own new arguments whenever possible.

Over the past year, I've started writing this book several different
times, and taken many notes at different points, and this book is
largely going to be all of those stitched together from about a dozen
and a half files. I'll do my best to make it as smooth a read as
possible, but please be forgiving if it's not as polished as you'd
hoped. It's the best I can do for now, as I'm writing on borrowed time.

\@gen.z.bible.stories\
Feast of the Most Holy Name of Jesus, 2025

# Old

## The Purpose of Life

A few facts about life, and answers to some fundamental questions, can
be figured out just by taking a little time to think. Questions like,
what is the purpose of life? Why do bad things happen to good people?
Can we live forever?

Imagine there's a perfect paradise that lasts forever, where nothing
ever goes wrong, nobody ever gets hurt or sick or dies, and everyone is
always perfectly happy all the time.

In order for it to be happy, there has to be love, since there has never
been happiness without love. And for love to be sincere and genuine, it
must be freely given, not by threat of punishment or promise of reward.
And wherever free will is, the potential for misusing it exists, and
doing wrong.

The moment one person does wrong, it permanently ruins the perfect
paradise for everyone. It's no longer full of peace and happiness;
misery and suffering have been introduced. The paradise could not and
should not last forever.

To avoid this, only good people should be allowed to enter the perfect
paradise, people who will not ruin it for everyone else by doing
anything wrong, by misusing their free will, by acting with hatred or
malice towards others.

But actions speak louder than words. People may lie about their
intentions, or overestimate their own character. So we can't just ask
people, we have to see them prove it. Which means they each need to be
put through a test, something similar to the paradise, but where things
go wrong.

That's why this life exists. It's a mixture of good and evil, paradise
and suffering, heaven and hell. Every day, by our lives and choices, we
all answer the question: will you be the type of person who will do the
right thing, for the right reasons, at all costs, even when everything
is going wrong?

This is why bad things happen even to good people, even to innocent
people who have done nothing wrong. That's part of the test, and it has
to be that way. This answers the so-called "problem of evil"
definitively.

In other words, the purpose of this life is to be *good*, not to be
*happy*. This is why so many people are miserable. Love is the only
thing that can make someone happy, concrete acts of genuine love. That's
why it's impossible to make yourself happy, and also why you can't
tickle yourself. Fortunately for us, we have it on good authority that
God loves us all.

But this also points us to a few more conclusions, solving a few more
mysteries and giving us practical life advice.

First, we can't live forever in this life. Scientists who try to break
the 120 year lifespan barrier are quite confused about life in general,
especially when they think we can or should be able to live forever in
this lifetime. There has to be an end to the test for it to produce
concrete, final results.

Second, we can't have babies in the next life. If we could, there would
be no way to tell if they will ruin paradise for everyone else, so
they'd have to go through the test first. This is why we're able to make
new people in this life.

Third, there has to be an end of the world. This life can't last
forever, it has to stop producing new people at some point, so that the
paradise can start. And the paradise can't fully start with complete
happiness until it has everyone in it who belongs there. They're waiting
for us to finish the test.

That also destroys a certain type of environmentalism that thinks this
life can last forever. No, our resources are more than likely finite,
and this is all we have. Maybe we should be reducing our reliance on
electricity and go back to using truly renewable energy: human labor and
animal labor.

So the purpose of life is to become good. But we have to know what good
means, and we need a means to be good.

## First Principles

The ideas in this book take for granted a few basic facts about life,
which good people will happily accept, and bad people always reject one
way or another, because each fact implicitly requires each of us to
adopt moral responsibility.

The first is that God exists and is good. There are so many proofs of
this from every direction that it's almost not worth debating an
atheist; deep down they know they're lying to themselves, and nobody can
defeat such willful ignorance. We have the fine tuning argument, the
first cause argument, and several others I've forgotten by now.

Second, Christianity is true. We have such an abundance of historical
evidence that the four gospels and the Acts of the Apostles are valid
and accurate historical accounts, that a person has to be
extraordinarily biased against God being real in order to deny these
books being objective fact.

Third, Catholicism is true. We're the only denomination that hasn't
ripped John 20:23 out of the Bible, where Jesus literally requires
Christians to confess their sins to a priest in order to receive God's
forgiveness.

We have many eucharistic miracles, where the bread starts to bleed after
a priest consecrates it, scientifically proven. We have incorruptible
bodies of the saints that barely decay after hundreds of years. We have
the times Mary appeared in Fatima, Lourdes, Guadalupe, and elsewhere,
providing many healing miracles to prove her message is from God.

And finally, we have heroes of history like Thomas More, Joan of Arc,
Therese of Lisieux, Francis of Assisi, Benedict of Nursia, John Bosco,
Vincent de Paul, Augustine, Mother Theresa, and literally more than
10,000 others, whose *lives of holiness and godliness* are unmatched by
anyone else, ever.

To defend and explain each one of our teachings would take a whole book
of its own, and the purpose of this book is to cover new ground and jump
right in. That said, here are a few answers to the most common
objections we receive:

*God flooded the whole world.* All were remorseless rapists.

*There are bad Catholics.* Doesn't overturn historical facts.

*Galileo, Crusades, Inquisition.* Now read our side of it.

*God condones slavery.* How is lower class not still slavery?

*Started in 325.* Ignatius said "Catholic Church" in 110.

*Created to oppress.* You just hate logic & cause-and-effect.

*You control via fear.* "If you overeat, you'll be sad." *Toxic!*

*Similarities to paganism.* Because they plagiarized us.

*It's intolerant.* No, we just won't be bullied into lying.

*It's not the oldest religion.* That *you* know of\... dun dun *dunnn*

*Miracles are impossible.* God can suspend laws of nature.

*Don't wear mixed fabrics.* Read Hebrews 7:12 again.

*Just follow Jesus.* Sure, but how? What does Jesus mean?

*Faith, not works.* Just admit that you've given up on life.

*Infant baptism is unbiblical.* Look up "*their faith your sins.*"

*No graven images.* Gravestones? Family photos? *Phones?*

*Bowing or kneeling is worship.* Marriage proposals? MMA?

*Don't pray to saints.* Explain Revelation 5:8 then.

*No vain repetition.* Jesus repeated his same prayer 3x.

*The Rosary is necromancy.* What? Are\... are you *okay*?

*Call no man father.* Paul calls the *man* Abraham *our father*.

*Confess to God, not a priest.* Explain John 20:23 then.

*Prove Purgatory?* Resist temptation and feel it yourself.

*Mary had other children.* Think harder about Luke 1:34.

*Mary sinned.* Explain Romans 6:23 and Hebrews 11:5.

*You worship the Pope.* We just obey his authority, *chill*.

*You recrucify Jesus.* We re-offer his *one* sacrifice daily.

*Communion is symbolic.* Judas agreed *and got possessed*.

## Adam and Eve

It is an objective, historical fact that Adam and Eve were the first two
humans like us, with souls made in the image and likeness of God, and
that the events in Genesis 2-3 are reliable, historical accounts of
actual events. Anyone who tries to use science to deny this is lying to
themselves.

Whether God used evolution to produce their physical bodies doesn't
matter, beyond answering trivial questions like whether they were
created with belly-buttons. It only matters that God created their souls
in a unique way, that they are the parents of the whole human race, and
that each one of us has a similarly unique soul created at conception.

Everything about the garden of Eden story is absolutely relevant to this
day, and will be until the end of time. Partly because it defines the
nature and roles of men and women. Partly because it gives us a glimpse
into all our temptations and the way of escaping them. And not least of
all, because the very same story is being replayed by each person's life
and by all humanity at every point in our history.

The basic story shows the test we all have to face: will you do things
the right way or the wrong way? Will you believe the truth or prefer
lies? Will you become good or evil? The forbidden fruit is the simplest
form of this test.

This story is also why dragons are part of every ancient myth across the
whole world. The serpent was only cursed to crawl on the ground and eat
dust *after* it had tempted Eve. Before that, it was a dragon, according
to Revelation 12:9, fully able to walk around and even fly. Its deadly
words are probably the origin of its fiery breath.

This is also the origin of the ancient story of the knight in shining
armor, who rescues the princess from the dragon.

## Good and Evil

Everyone believes in good and evil, whether they use the words or not.
Everyone bases their decisions on a morality that resonates with their
heart and mind, even if they never use the word sin to describe what
they would never do.

Life has a final boss, and it's a dragon. He will attack the strongest
in the hour of our death.

## Authority

Adam and Eve were not given names until after the fall. Before that,
they were simply Man and Woman. There was no need for unique names when
they were the only people.

This means that every single thing that happened to Man, that Man did,
and Man should have done, and Man was now required to do, falls upon
every single man to this day, until the end of time. In the same way,
everything about the Woman is true for every woman there ever was or
will be.

When Adam sinned in the garden, he inherently created two branches of
human history. First would be the failing and ultimately doomed kingdom
of Adam, which lasts until the end of this world. But a second branch
was created, by a second Son of God, one who was before the first one,
who would correctly obey the Eternal Father.

This means there are two kingdoms, and they will have to grow up side by
side, like the wheat and the chaff, until it's time for harvest. This is
where the grim reaper comes from.

When Jesus comes back, the old kingdom will finally end, and the new
kingdom will begin in its fullness forever. Until then, both kingdoms
have to live side by side, and everyone is able to cross from one to the
other as many times as they decide, until their lives are each over.

Each person's life is replaying the ancient mystery of the garden of
Eden in its fullness. Will you play your role well like Jesus and Mary
did, or fail it like Adam and Eve did?

## Masculinity

Man was given three roles, priest, prophet, and king, each with
universal jurisdiction over the whole world. When he named his son Seth,
which means *appointed*, this signified that Seth was to take his place
as leader of the whole world.

This is why Peter is the Pope, because Christ means this threefold
authority of priest, prophet, and king, which Jesus gave to Simon by
giving him the name Rock, and as Paul says about the Old Testament, *the
Rock was Christ*.

As king, Man was to make restrictive laws that protected society from
utter destruction. Adam failed to do so, Jesus passed this test by
creating a new law, *the one we had from the beginning, to love one
another*, and he signed this new law into effect with his own blood on
the cross.

As prophet, Man was to speak the word of God to all the people, and he
failed, since Woman said they could not eat *or touch* the forbidden
fruit, which was untrue. Jesus used memorable parables to teach people
the Word of God, and he taught the same things multiple times in many
ways.

As priest, Man was to offer his will as the highest sacrifice, and Adam
offered his will to his wife by worshipping her. Jesus offered it to
God, being *obedient even unto death*, as he said when he came into the
world, *sacrifices and offerings thou hast not desired; then I said, lo,
I have come to do thy will O God, as it is written of me in the roll of
the book.*

All three roles are especially given to priests in the church, which is
the kingdom of God on earth. This is why the Pope can speak *ex
cathedra* and has complete control over canon law, since these are the
roles of prophet and king. I have a theory that I won't go into now,
that the Pope as high priest is the source of the doctrine we call
*Treasury of Merit*.

These three roles of authority *are* our masculinity. Every single
Christian has to carry their cross, but men and women have different
crosses to bear.

Every man has to defeat a dragon, and these roles are his weapons. By
being king over his family and ruling his household well, he protects
them from the dragon's traps. By teaching his wife and children the
truth, he prevents the destructive lies of the dragon from entering
their hearts. By offering daily sacrifices for his family, he

# A New Theology

## The Meaning of Life

For thousands of years, humanity has understood the principles and
benefits of levers. Yet it wasn't until recently that we invented the
gear, which is nothing more than a clever usage of levers. Many answers
to our deepest questions have been staring us right in the face the
whole time, we just can't see them until we step back and look
carefully.

Imagine a perfect paradise, where nothing ever goes wrong, it lasts
forever, and everyone's always happy. There's no death, pain, sickness,
trauma, or unhappiness of any kind. For this paradise to be happy, there
needs to be love. For love to be true, it has to be given freely, not
under constraint of promise or threat. For free will to exist, there has
to be the potential of people using it to not love, which is precisely
what malice is, and why it hurts the soul so much.

The moment someone does one thing wrong, the perfect paradise is ruined
forever. Which means we can't just let anyone into the perfect paradise,
since they could destroy it with one single malicious act of free will,
by one single evil deed.

Instead, we have to put everyone through a test to prove they won't ruin
everything. We can't just ask them, since they could lie or overestimate
their own character. And that test needs to resemble the paradise, with
the exception that things need to go wrong, sometimes even arbitrarily
or randomly. This way, everyone's actions can definitively answer the
question: will you be the kind of person who does the right thing, for
the right reasons, at all costs, even when everything is going wrong?

In other words, the purpose of this life is entirely to be a test of
each person's character, to see what kind of person each will choose to
be, good or bad.

This fully explains the so-called problem of evil: if God is good, why
do bad things happen? Because they have to, this life is a test. The
people who say this is some sort of proof that God doesn't exist are all
people who have given up on being good, and want to make their own
little paradise here, now. They're lying to themselves, and deep down
they know it. This is why I stopped debating atheists who rely on this
question long ago. Notice how all such atheists will always support
legalizing abortion, and I've never met one who supported banning
pornography. The dots aren't hard to connect.

But there are still a few more conclusions we can draw from this.

First, this life must be temporary for each individual person. There's
no such thing as extending your life on earth forever. It has to end at
some point, simply because the test needs to end. Which means, all
science used to try to extend our lives is a waste of time and money,
and a hopeful delusion, as sci-fi also consistently attests to.

Second, we can't have children in the perfect paradise. If we could,
those new people wouldn't be put through the test, and might use their
free will to ruin paradise. This is why Jesus says *in the kingdom of
God, people will neither marry nor be given in marriage, but they will
be like the angels.* We can only have children in this life, and
everyone who will ever be in heaven must be born in this life.

Third, there has to be an "end of the world." This life can't continue
indefinitely, there has to be a cutoff where human history as we know it
ends, the test is over for everyone who ever will be part of human
history, and the perfect paradise fully begins.

This destroys the idea that we can find renewable energy or make the
planet last indefinitely. No, our resources are finite and limited, and
we have to share them with each other and all future generations. Which
means we should probably go back to using the renewable things we
already had: human energy and animal energy.

It also means we can't explore other planets until the paradise starts,
and in fact that's probably why they're there, for all humanity to
explore *after* we first prove to be responsible enough with the one
planet we're on in the first place.

Overall, the purpose of this life is to be a good person, the type of
person who is willing to do the right thing for the right reasons, at
all costs. This life is not for happiness, although we get a glimpse of
it here to spur us on. Happiness is reserved for the next life, the
perfect paradise.

In fact, there's no such thing as making yourself happy. Others can make
you happy, but you can never make yourself happy, since happiness comes
from love, from a concrete act of showing genuine love. We can love our
neighbor as ourselves, and make them happy, and they can make us happy.
And God can make all of us happy with the gifts he gives each and all of
us, including family, food, music, and the beauty of nature. But trying
to make yourself happy will *always* backfire.

This is why so many people are miserable. They get a glimpse of
happiness, they like it, and they think they can repeat it by imitating
the action that caused it, not realizing that the fact that the action
brought happiness was because it was done out of love by another. This
is also why we can't tickle ourselves.

## Divine Humor

There is so much evil humor in the world, probably most of it. And
throughout the Bible, there is very little humor, and none that I'm
aware of by Jesus himself. But does this mean God doesn't have a sense
of humor?

There is a very good, holy, and wholesome type of humor, and it very
literally is God's humor, and it's called play on words. Since the Word
of God is divine, then words are to some extent also divine. This is
partly why the devil's tactics from the Garden of Eden until now has
been to redefine and misuse words to confuse and deceive people.

Wordplay is literally playing with an aspect of the divine, which is why
it's the fuel behind dad jokes. The modern hatred of dad jokes is
absolutely unjustified and unreasonable, and I've always found that
hatred confusing and now I see why it's evil: dad jokes are a part of
the paternal nature of God the Father. It's literally the father
playfully wrestling with the son!

Dad jokes and similar word play need to come back in style, in every
form.

## True Death

You have to understand that your life in the kingdom of Adam is over.
It\'s dead. You have no more possibility of happiness within it.
There\'s nothing new it can offer you, you\'ve tried it all, and it was
all pointless. The kingdom of Adam is doomed, it\'s failing, it\'s
dying. And if you remain tied to it, you will perish with it. Loosen
your ties to it. Be attached to nothing and no one within it.

Expect that you are already dead. Your life in Adam is already over. You
have nothing left to look forward to within it except your death. Your
life within Jesus is now beginning, but it hasn\'t fully begun yet.
You\'re a seed planted within the garden of gethsemane, in the tomb next
to Golgotha. You are still dying to Adam, and although you\'re not yet
born into the kingdom of Jesus, your life is just as alive as a seed is
before it sprouts above ground.

There is no more happiness left for you in this life. You have nothing
left to expect except your death. Every moment you\'re not yet dead is a
moment you must use to ensure you don\'t fall back into the kingdom of
Adam and try to live for yourself, but rather die to all your Adamic
wants and desires. It\'s also useful for helping others here to die to
Adam and live to Christ.

The two kingdoms are born of different principles. Adam\'s began with
pleasure and ended with pain. Adam and Eve ate the fruit and began to
decay. Their death was put off by one day by a meal of bread, wine, and
lamb. It starts with pleasure and ends with pain. Having children begins
with pleasure unfathomable and ends with pain indescribable. We steal
pleasures ahead of time and pay them off with pain later. Your childhood
is fully of joyful times, but your last years are full of misery,
loneliness, sadness, suffering, and death.

The live of Christ is the opposite. It begins with pain and ends with
pleasure. It begins with death and ends with life. It\'s what Adam and
Eve should have done but chose not to do. With a life full of pain and
suffering, we purchase an eternal life overflowing with joy and peace.
So this life must be full of pain and sadness. There\'s nothing else to
expect in this life.

You will die in this life. There is no escaping death. You can only
delay it for a short while. What good is it to purchase a few more
decades, truly not much longer than a few more seconds, at the expense
of your integrity? The one thing we truly own is our character, why
throw it away for a few seconds of fleeting and false happiness?

We don\'t get out of this alive. We have one chance, one shot to do the
right thing, at any and all costs. The highest goal in life must be to
figure out what the right thing is, and put everything we have towards
actually accomplishing it. There\'s no other purpose for anything we
have, whether money, reputation, health, time, relationships, or
anything at all. Everything we are given is for the sake of fulfilling
the mission God has given us at baptism for the sake of the kingdom of
God. The entire kingdom of Adam, fleeting and illusory as it is, is
worth forfeiting in exchange for purchasing and serving the kingdom of
God, which the kingdom of Adam should have been from the beginning but
chose not to be.

You cannot make yourself happy. Only others can make you happy, and only
with a concrete act borne out of love. This is why you cannot tickle
yourself. When a parent gives a child some cake out of love, the child
is happy because of the love, not the cake. When they want to feel happy
again, if they try to eat the cake, they don\'t feel the happiness
anymore. When no one in life loves someone, he tries everything he can
think of to make himself happy, but none of it works. All these things
do is waste time and resources and make him more sad.

When there is no love, problems can traumatize a person. But when the
person knows he is loved, problems have no power to cause him trauma,
and all past traumas can heal. The blood of Christ heals all wounds,
whether of the body or the soul, by forming a protective layer and
recreating what was lost or damaged. The Eucharist heals us and makes us
whole again. It is stronger than death itself, and will restore us to
life after we die.

You may think there\'s no purpose in providing for yourself or taking
care of your responsibilities, because you don\'t deserve anything good.
And that may very well be true. But God wants you to be prepared to take
care of others, and that requires you to at least be clean, fed, and
have enough sleep, as well as making sure the property you own that
might be useful in serving others is taken care of and maintained and
cleaned. Even if no one in the world seems worthy of it, see Jesus,
Mary, and Joseph in them all, and they will become worth of taking care
of, and you will now be required to take care of yourself to be able to
take care of them properly.

## Blindness

Do not sin or you will go blind. All wrongdoing is sin. To believe that
doing the wrong thing will result in the right thing requires a
delusion.

Willingly entering into a delusion is dangerous. Once you enter, you\'re
now unaware that you\'re in the delusion, that you have believed a lie.
Once you lie to yourself, you can no longer perceive that you have lied
to yourself. You only get vague hints of it here and there, when things
don\'t quite match up to proper expectations, although it\'s not clear
why, and on paper, everything seems to be fine. At this point, intuition
is the only reliable thing left, since reason has been abandoned.

So do not sin. Do not willingly lie to yourself, for you may never find
the escape from the lie you\'ve chosen over the truth. Smaller lies lead
to bigger lies, smaller wrongs lead to more serious sins.

The blood of Christ can free us from this delusion, especially through
baptism and confession, though the strength of its effect can be
hindered by lingering too near the same lies and the environments of the
lies. Wandering away from God after being saved by him from the
deceitfulness of sin will result in seven stronger demons finding a home
in your new sanity.

I cannot emphasize enough how easy it is to lose entire decades of our
lives, wasting and withering away in utter pointlessness and futility,
if we let ourselves fall into any serious temptation. And the more
clearly we see the foolishness of the temptation, the deeper we fall in
if we acquiesce to its empty allurements and illusory and fleeting
pleasure.

## Darkness

The following was written by a Christian man shortly after he had
willingly given himself over to every sinful self-indulgence, without
any regard for fear of God or of hell. It is helpful as a grave warning
that shows just how blind one becomes after such reckless disregard, and
as a pattern to imitate when one needs to find a way out of such pitch
black darkness.

*In this moment, nothing can make me happy. Nothing good and nothing
sinful. All is pointless, all is empty.*

*So I turn to God. I tried before to turn to God, but distractions held
me back. Now nothing holds me back.*

*But I know that soon, temptations will come back, and I will not be
able to withstand the internal suffering.*

*So my job right now is to pray and ask God to give me strength to
withstand suffering at the next temptation.*

*And I remember that, long ago, I was able to withstand far more
suffering. And I had no difficulty with it. How far I\'ve fallen.*

*But my motivation back then was love. I remember that clearly. I wanted
to be a warrior for God, and I wanted to suffer everything for him.*

*I know that I have to take small steps to get back there. But more
importantly, that it does not matter whether I am there or not. That
would be a source of pain for me again.*

*But rather, what matters right now is that I love God, even if it\'s
the only two pennies I have, it\'s still 100% of what I have, and
that\'s how he counts.*

*So I make a small intentional act. I say Jesus I love you, Jesus I
trust in you. This starts me on that path, in that direction, away from
the distractions I have intentionally followed.*

*And I remember that this can continue indefinitely as long as I can
withstand suffering. So I ask him to give me the grace to withstand it
without sin, and to push back all suffering as much as possible (lead us
not into temptation comes to mind.)*

*I sense a peace and stillness I haven\'t experienced in a while, not
since before the distractions overcame me again. (Whatever overcomes a
man, to that he is enslaved.)*

*Slow and steady wins the race. I can keep this up indefinitely as long
as I make rules for myself to protect myself from returning to the
distractions. (Therefore, let us lay aside every weight and sin which
clings so closely, and let us run with perseverance the race set before
us, looking to Jesus.)*

*I remember that my own rules for myself were not imposed on me back
when I followed them diligently, they were my choice, and I was right
when I made them, and that they came from hard earned and painful
lessons. (I remember that he\'s called the lawless one.)*

## Author of Hebrews (TODO)

## Morals and Doctrine (TODO)

The morals you live by always determines the beliefs you will have in
the long run. In the short term, what you believe to be true, or rather
what you *want* to believe to be true, determines which choice you will
make in a moral dilemma.

# Thoughts

## Misc

Goodness and truth are inseparable. Jesus came into the world bringing
both truth and grace. Jesus said that goodness and honesty are the two
conditions of a heart that brings forth abundant fruit. St. Paul said
those who love doing wrong are those who choose to believe what is
false. Hebrews equates an evil heart and an unbelieving heart as having
the same effect and being the same thing. Adam and Eve chose to reject
not only the truth about what God said, but God's morals themselves.

People without moral virtue recognize the fruits and benefits of it. But
because they have separated cause and effect and rejected the laws of
logic and the *logos*, they can't understand how to achieve any of those
benefits or fruits. In their confusion and futility, they resort to
imitation, mimicking the effect itself, instead of producing it
properly. This is most clearly seen in transgenderism, and when people
misuse fancy sounding words, or try so hard to adhere to every single
arbitrary rule of literature and writing.

The moral reality is the highest truth, higher even than the physical
reality. The laws of physics reflect the moral truth of God's existence
and nature. God's justice is clearly seen in the scientific fact that
every action has an equal and opposite reaction. Sleeping is a miniature
death. It's there to prepare us each day for the final sleep of life.
Eating is a blood sacrifice, in which something dies so we can live a
little longer. The need for daily showers is because we literally begin
to rot if we don't, just as a corpse does. Gravity pulls us down just as
Original Sin does. After the Resurrection, these won't be needed
anymore, so God will remove these temporary lessons from the laws of
physics permanently.

We get tired and less capable at the end of each day. The same thing
happens at the end of our life. This is God preparing us each night to
recognize that there's only a finite amount of action that we can take
in this lifetime, and to reflect on the fleetingness of the results of
most of our futile efforts to make the world a better place. He seems to
be trying to show us that the only thing that truly lasts is our
character, and how much we influenced others to improve their character.
One day we will wake up from this life as though from a dream, and
everything around us will simply vanish away like a mist, leaving only
our character to be examined. How awful it will be on that day if we
have nothing to show for a whole life!

The Trinity is seen throughout all nature. We must breathe out to speak,
just as the Spirit and the Word go hand in hand from the Father. Three
dimensions create one space. Out of seven notes, only three are needed
for a chord. Seven musical notes repeat, just as seven days of the week
do forever.

True friendship is just what Jesus said: to lay down one's life for
one's friends. We have to be okay with forming friendships with people
who are like-hearted, even if not entirely like-minded yet. Just as
Jesus said the disciples were his friends because he told them his
plans, we have to let friends into our hearts and trust them. But it's
important to only do this with people who first prove trustworthy. That
said, they will still likely abandon us, and not be there for us, just
as all the disciples abandoned Jesus on the night he was betrayed. But
we have to still be there for them, just as Jesus never left them, and
encouraged them.

If God is good, then I have nothing to worry about when doing his will.
But his will seems contrary to what I believe is necessary for my
happiness. But my own life experience sufficiently proves that this is
merely a delusion, a temptation from the devil. When I try to avoid
doing god's will to find happiness, things invariably get much worse,
sooner or later. Even if they seem in the moment to be going well, after
enough time passes, I become fully convinced otherwise. And this ought
to be common sense: if God's plan is the best, then all other plans are
inherently less good and at least somewhat problematic. If God's will
for me is my own good and even best interests, then any other choice is
less good for me. This unfounded fear of God's will started with Adam
and Eve, and ends with Doomsday. It's the same fear that causes every
sin that ever occurred or will occur. This is what faith is directly
opposed to: we must believe that God's will is best, despite the strong
temptation to not believe it. We must believe that God is good and love
us and wants what's ultimately best for us. This is the faith that
Jesus, Mary, and Joseph all had for their whole lives.

All human history and activity is to some degree just avoiding facing
God. It's a replaying of the garden of Eden, hiding from God, and trying
to make our own false paradise while ignoring the elephant in the room,
that we have to face God one day whether we like it or not. All drama,
whether in real life or television or plays or movies or video games or
social media, are simply busying ourselves to avoid the inherent angst
of facing the music. We simulate the event that we're avoiding so we can
domesticate it, make it less scary, pretend that it's already over, or
possibly to prepare ourselves to face it head on.

No one can pass the test of this life if it's too long. And no one can
pass each individual temptation if it lasts too long. Jesus said that if
the days were not shortened, no one would be saved, not even those
chosen by God. So he shortened the days to 120 years at most for each of
us, and he shortens every single temptation to be at least possible,
even if difficult.

I've never stayed up later than 9pm and later felt that the time I spent
was truly worthwhile. I only ever did so to kill time, but time is not
an infinite resource.

Time is not our own. God gives each of us a finite amount of time. We
can never say I finally have time to do what I want. We only have time
to do what God wants us to do. Of course God wants us to have time to
rest and enjoy life, but he will provide that time to us, and he will
make it abundantly clear through circumstances that it's time to do
that. Seek his righteousness and his kingdom first, and all the rest
will be given abundantly to us.

Blessed are the poor, because they have practically no choice but to
trust in God for all their needs. When you never know where your next
meal will come from or how you will pay next month's rent, you learn to
recognize that all of these came from God's fatherly providence, and you
learn to rely on them. This is why Saints like Francis of Assisi sold
all that they had, gave to the poor, and survived entirely off God's
providence, working with their hands to serve the poor and sick, and
giving every single dime they earned to them.

Grace is the ability to do good and avoid doing wrong. St. John says in
his first letter than all wrongdoing is sin. Grace is what God naturally
has, that's why Jesus was able to not sin for his whole life. We don't
naturally have grace, it's the one thing we need from God, that we
should ask for most of all, and that he is guaranteed to give us if we
want it and ask for it.

What good is it to waste 50 years on a pointless endeavor? To spend
countless hours doing something that ultimately fails? To spend a
lifetime working toward goals you eventually stop believing in and
abandon? To accomplish something that afterward you regret and realize
did more harm than good? It's gravely important to make sure that our
priorities and principles are right from the beginning, instead of
wasting our lives on the wrong things.

Everyone wants to be loved, but the right solution is to love
unconditionally. God loves us and proved it by dying for us so we could
live. We now have an infinite source of the most perfect love
imaginable, fully and freely opened up to each one of us, poured out
through the heart of Jesus. When we have no love in our hearts, we can't
love others, and we can't produce love out of nowhere. Only when we
receive love into our hearts can we love others, and we can freely love
them unconditionally, with no expectation of anything from them. Love
whoever God puts in your life, and do not worry about whether you are
loved by these imperfect people. Love them despite their imperfections.
Love them for the potential that is within them due to them being made
in God's image and likeness. Love them because you would have wanted to
be loved when you were loved by no one. Love them because God first
loved you when you didn't deserve it either. In fact, love them knowing
full well you will be hated and betrayed by them, just as Jesus was. And
still love them anyway, even while and after they hate, betray, and
abandon you to death. Love them knowing God loved you in the same way,
and always will. Never reject God's free and perfect love. God's love
matters, his judgment is true and just, and he knows everything about
you, and loves you anyway.

The author of Hebrews interprets our actions in the most charitable way,
and teaches us how to do the same, in Hebrews 6:10, saying that we
continue to serve the saints, and that this is why God is being patient
with our sinfulness and foolishness. Even though we do a lot of wrong,
and are even failing in faith, if we still help those in our lives and
have even an ounce of humility to consider that they would have done
better had they been in our shoes for our whole lives, God credits this
to us as serving the saints, and plans to repay us generously for it.

A person's physical appearance gradually changes to reflect the morals
they've lived by. Women with evil morals often end up looking like
stereotypical witches, especially when they don't have cosmetic surgery.
Men with evil morals often end up looking effeminate.

The serpent in the garden of Eden was actually a dragon. It was called
such by St. John in Revelation 12. It was known universally throughout
all ancient cultures that there was some kind of very evil and dangerous
dragon. And before the curse of God, the serpent was not yet bound to
crawl on its belly, which implies that it at least had legs, if not also
wings. The serpent was no ordinary snake, it was a dragon. Revelation 12
shows a replaying of the events of Eden, but with the New Adam and the
New Eve, Jesus and Mary.

The son of man has nowhere to lay his head. Sts. Luke and John both say
Jesus slept on the Mount of Olives at night, and that this was his home
on earth. Cain tried building a city despite being cursed to be a
wanderer, and it was futile. In Hebrews, we see that Abraham desired a
better city than any found on earth, that is, a heavenly one, built by
God himself. When Adam and Eve sinned, this earth became a temporary
testing ground for our souls, not a permanent home. Maybe we should
sleep on a couch or the floor to avoid having a false sense of home in
what ought to be no more than a tent in a moral wilderness.

Faith means believing that God is good and loves us and wants to make us
happy, even if we're not happy in the moment. Hope means to trust that
God will help us stay on the right path to happiness and will never fail
us or abandon us. We love God because he's good and helps us to become
good out of his love for us, and this will eventually make us happy.
Love fills our hearts from God, and pours out selflessly into helping
others. Helping others does not mean helping them with anything they ask
for or want, and it doesn't mean taking away their burdens entirely. It
means lightening their burdens just enough to be able to help them carry
it. But they need to carry it themselves. The burden is the cross, and
nobody enters heaven without carrying their own cross. The cross is the
bridge to heaven.

Veganism for the sake of avoiding causing animal suffering is gravely
immoral and based on actual heresy. Eating food every day is literally a
blood sacrifice for sins. Before the fall, we didn't need to eat, but we
could eat for pleasure. But when Adam and Eve sinned, they began to
starve, and almost died that day. But God slaughtered a lamb, gave them
its meat for food, its skin and wool for clothes, and its tallow for
candles, thus sparing their lives for one more day. Abel offered God a
lamb, but Cain denied that sin was a thing, and probably thought Abel
committed animal cruelty. He was the world's first vegan. To this day,
we can only eat things that were alive and recently died, and their
death buys us one more day of life. The sins of the soul aren't forgiven
by this, but the body's punishment is delayed.

Many will say *Lord, Lord, we cast out demons in your name,* that is, we
got rid of all the bad people for you, not recognizing that this fact
itself made them the bad people. They will say *we did many mighty works
in your name*, meaning the fruitless conversions we caused, and the many
false churches we planted.

Those who dwell upon the earth means those who love this false paradise.
Those who dwell in heaven means those who love God's definition of truth
and goodness, who live in tents like Abraham did, despising the kingdom
of the Dragon and longing for a kingdom built on God's principles and
values, without an ounce of delusion or injustice.

The kingdom of Jesus enriches the kingdom of Adam. All of Adam's
children toil and worry every day about how they will survive or find
happiness. God's children are already dead to this futile and vain path,
so they don't worry about themselves or finding happiness. They let God
provide that for them. They are then free to help alleviate the
suffering of Adam's children, carrying their burdens with them, and show
them the true power of God's love. They create beauty in a fallen and
dying world; they are the salt that makes a miserable life palatable;
they are the light that show the children of Adam the way to the Light
of the World.

Temptations are the steps to heaven. We have to overcome each one to
advance upward. The difficulties of life are the thorny path to
salvation. Just as you can't get stronger without exercising your
muscles, and can't earn a degree without passing many tests, no one can
become good unless we are able to face temptations to reject being good
and do wrong. St. James says *show me your faith without your works, and
by my works I will show you my faith*. In other words, show me the color
red without an object, and by an apple I will show you the color red.
Faith isn't real unless it's united to an action. Until then, it's just
a theory.

True worship means doing someone's will. Adam worshipped Eve, and Eve
worshipped the Dragon, and the Dragon worshipped himself, so then Eve
began to worship herself, and Adam began to worship himself. Jesus
worshipped God by doing only the Father's will. Devotion to Mary causes
us to do her will, and her last words in the Bible were *do whatever he
tells you.* She only wants us to worship God and do his will.

Many ideas are right in front of us. The lever was known about since
Archimedes. The gear is based on the lever, yet it took us thousands of
years to develop machinery. Many ideas are right in front of us, but
still waiting to be seen. They just need to be drawn out a bit.

Dad jokes are inherently divine in nature. They're something dads
automatically do because of their nature as being made in the image of
the Father. Dad jokes are inherently based on word play, and Jesus is
called the Word. In a very real way, dad jokes are a reflection or
representation of God the Father play-wrestling with God the Son. This
is why dad jokes are hated in a world that hates God. Most dad jokes are
also entirely wholesome, which the world also hates in its insatiable
quest for more and more impurity. The idea that dad jokes are irritating
and annoying is truly demonic and needs to disappear.

Humor with dignity is fine. But when it becomes excessive goofiness,
it's a form of levity, which is spoken against in Ephesians 5:4. Humor
must be done appropriately and without disrespecting our own dignity and
devaluing our own worth as respectable people.

Passion projects as a young person are God calling us to learn a skill
or knowledge that will prove to be helpful. Playing as a kid is the same
thing, it discovers talents and cultivates them into skills and
abilities. It's good to chase after these desires, that's why God put
them there. We should be okay with throwing away toy projects, since
their real usefulness was in producing a lasting skill.

If you have a victim card, you will eventually be tempted to use it.
Victimism started in Eden, when Adam blamed Eve and Eve blamed the
dragon. Playing the victim is inherently linked to avoiding moral guilt
and culpability. The purpose and benefit of victimism is to claim and
prove that you deserve more mercy. Sometimes this mercy is truly
deserved, as when a genuine injustice occurs, and that wasn't entirely
false in Eden, which is why all three parties involved were cursed,
because they each played a culpable role in someone else's downfall. But
God also had mercy on Adam and Eve for their true victimhood. But
injustices can be falsified or exaggerated in order to gain unworthy
mercy. Mercy takes two forms: having our wrongs forgiven, and obtaining
the things we need but don't have. Both are inherently linked, since we
often don't have what we need as a direct result of the wrong we've
done. But it's very easy to not trust in God's mercy, providence, and
goodness, to the point where we go to any length to obtain what we need
from God from anyone else and by any other means than asking God for
personal forgiveness.

Scariness seems to be based on unreasonableness. When something is
outside of its natural habitat, or not having its natural shape or
properties, it's scary. When a person moves unnaturally or too fast,
it's scary. Movement is fine, but incorrect movement is inconsistent
with the laws of nature, which reflect the *Logos*. Malice is the most
unreasonable thing of all, and furthest from the *Logos*, which makes it
the most terrifying and traumatizing if not prepared for. Yet Jesus
directly faced every form of malice in its fullness on the cross. If he
is with us, nothing can scare or traumatize us.

There's a social media trend where some young men ask young women if
height matters, and if they say yes, he says to get on a scale. This
analogy is flawed. It's true that men can't control their height and
women can control their weight. But it's natural for a woman to want a
man that's taller than her, and a man to want a woman shorter than him.
This came from Adam and Eve. She was taken from his rib, his side. Even
if one man is shorter than a given woman, she can find another man who's
taller than her.

The reason woman is shorter than man is because woman is the apex of the
nature of humanity, the highest point of creation. On each day, God
created a higher form of creation, or a higher life form. On the last
day, God created man and woman. And within that day, God created man
first and woman last. Femininity has all the innocence of childhood with
the perfections of adulthood. This is why Mary, Mother of God, is the
perfect human who's not also naturally divine. She's both Mother and
Virgin. Femininity is like the soft inside of an egg, masculinity is
like the hard, protective outside. Both are needed, neither is superior
to the other, and the result is a new creation altogether, the child.

The body and soul are divinely united. The brain is not the source of
consciousness, the soul is. When separated from the body at death, the
mind still exists in its fullness. The mind seems to literally just be
the soul. The brain is simply the thing that controls the rest of the
body. The soul wills for a body part to move, and it just moves. The
brain executes and orchestrates the order physically, but the will
orders it and produces the order. This power is not in the brain but in
the soul. This is why any technology meant to enhance the mind through
manipulating the physical brain is a delusional dream at best, and a
harmful project against confused individuals at worst. There's no such
thing as enhancing the capabilities of the soul through physical means.
It's absolutely dangerous to try. The true way to do so is through
virtue, grace, and the eventual Resurrection.

People don't usually say explicitly what they need. Many times they
can't articulate it, and often times they aren't even conscious of it.
Babies cry, people in broken relationships pick small fights just so
they can break up. Those who don't feel the love of God from anyone on
earth often act maliciously and do evil to others for no other reason.
This is also true of societies. A society with a very broken justice
system will inherently see more vigilantism.

Joseph and Mary always chose to remain virgins. The only people who have
a hard time believing this are those who can't believe that the marital
act is not equivalent to love. Two virgins produced a virgin. Two people
full of grace produced the source of all grace. Two people without sin
produced he who takes away the sins of the world. There's no reason to
have more children when you produced the perfect child that could ever
exist. Because Mary is the new Eve, she had to be the spiritual mother
of all the truly living, all Christians. This is why Jesus said behold
your mother, and to her, behold your son, referring to the beloved
disciple, which represents every Christian.

Software development is the perfection of philosophy. Practically
speaking, it follows the pure rules of logic. But unlike logic on paper,
if the software's logic is faulty, the software itself will fail and
have bugs or glitches or crash or not accomplish its purpose. Maybe the
best way to learn logic is through writing flawless software, no matter
how small. It took me twice as long as every other software engineer to
learn how to write apps that work well, and it was always very difficult
and confusing. After I converted and started practicing Catholicism,
avoiding all sins, my ability to write flawless software increased
rapidly and exponentially. The further a person is morally from the
*logos*, the harder logic is for them.

St. Francis de Sales calls Christians who are in love with the world
"madmen." How much more then can we rightly say that atheists are
utterly insane? Not in a disrespectful way of course, but that they
should have no sway with us, since we have the truth and they have
rejected it. Besides, their lives are never worthy of imitation. The
Saints actually are. Why take advice from an overweight dietitian? Why
pay a depressed therapist? I would rather be like Jesus than anyone who
ever lived without him. Almost everyone on earth is unhappy, and most of
them admit it to those closest to them, if not outright publicly. But
the Saints were happy, even in disasters and calamities. They had the
love of Jesus in their hearts.

Generative AI is unethical. It's just plagiarism. But it also opens up a
path to the demonic. The software behind AI has two aspects: it first
breaks down content and categorizes it by semantics, and the generative
aspect rebuilds these parts into something bigger, by trying to match up
words to semantics, semantics to parts, and parts to a new piece of
content. But where the algorithm allows for choice, demonic choice is
able to interfere to the extent that God allows it and sin fuels it.
This is exactly the same reason that Ouija boards actually do have the
potential to communicate with demons. There's nothing inherent in the
boards themselves that allows this, they're simply physical objects. But
when we create an object, and then try to derive a benefit beyond its
natural capability, we are inherently acting to some degree
unreasonable, and this unreasonableness allows the demonic to operate.
AI is the new golden calf: we create an object and then worship the work
of our own hands as somehow superior to us, the ones who created it.

The power of witchcraft seems to be unreasonableness itself. There's
nothing inherent about potions that grant demons power. There's no
inherent connection between the natural world and demons being able to
be fueled. Demons don't have physical bodies that require fuel from the
physical world, although they can act on the physical world as part of
their natural abilities, which angels also have. Their fuel for this
ability mainly seems to come from sin and from fear. But more
fundamentally, it seems to come from any act of inherent
unreasonableness, or rather an act separated from the *Logos*. The
further from logic and reason, the stronger the fuel for demons. All sin
is by definition unreasonable, or rather acts of unreasonableness, a
rejection of truth and separation of the laws of logic. Therefore, the
more sin is present, the more demons are fueled and able to interfere in
the physical world. The more heinous the sins in a house, the more the
house gets infested with demons. The more sins occur via the internet,
the more the internet itself seems to be infested with demonic
interference.

## Providence

## Feminism

Worship of women seemed to have started in the past few hundred years.
Fear and awe of majesty are integral parts of worship. This is why many
young men are afraid to approach or talk to women, because they're made
out to be goddesses of pleasure, beauty, and grace. Video games, movies,
pornography, and social media all put women on such pedestals more and
more often. Yet most women who are thus worshipped have literally
nothing of value to offer, beyond the basic pleasure and beauty that all
women have. And often times it is empty and poisonous. It doesn't matter
how beautiful the house is if it's haunted. The harlot of Babylon at
least partially represents this. The same mistake Adam made, worshipping
Eve as the source of all his happiness and a paradise on earth, is
repeated today. It's the reason countless marriages fail today, because
they're based on false premises, that this life is a paradise, and that
a happy wife produces that paradise. Men spilling their seed is
literally a blood sacrifice, for the life is in the blood. The Church
has always held woman in proper esteem, not too low like most cultures
have, and not too high like people do now. This is most clearly seen
with Mary, the Mother of God, who we call the perfect human being, not
only sinless, but who did everything as perfectly as possible, despite
being merely human and not divine. The worship of women as somehow
superior to men seems to be beginning to come to an end in the past few
years, but it's hard to tell.

Abortion seems to have become widespread due to worship of women. Most
men who support abortion claim they do so because they don't feel like
it's right to tell a woman what she can and can't do with her body. It's
disguised as chivalrous virtue. They openly value the woman more than
the unborn child. Within a hundred years of women's suffrage in America,
the country seems to be split down the middle on the question of
abortion. Most people who supported Harris cited abortion as the primary
issue, and increasing access to abortions has been called progress.
Young women are being raised to worship themselves and their own free
will. Many of them see abortion restrictions as a step backwards, as an
act of controlling them, and as evil. In social media debates, their
most common argument to justify legalizing abortion has been that God
gave us all free will, and that it's therefore inviolable and not to be
impeded. They genuinely seem to think that their free will trumps
literally everything else in this situation, and are baffled when others
don't agree.

Unanchored feminine empathy are dangerous to humanity, just as much as
unanchored masculine force is. Without the anchor of God's morals, men
hurt innocent people, but anchored justly, men save innocent people from
unjust oppressors. The natural compassion of women, anchored by God,
allows her child to be disciplined so he can grow up to be a good and
happy man. She teaches him that cause and effect cannot be bent to our
will, and so she trains him to learn to work within them patiently and
effectively, sparing him from a life of misery. But without this divine
anchor, her compassion hates to see him suffering as a child, so she
refuses to discipline him, and his whole future is ruined. The letter to
the Hebrews says that all discipline is painful in the moment, but later
it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who are trained
by it. Righteousness here means doing the right thing, that is,
following and obeying the laws of reality, and working with them, not
against them. This creates peace, not a lack of social conflict or
conflict with nature, but a lack of conflict with logic, cause and
effect, and the laws of reality itself.

Witchcraft is becoming increasingly popular. When I was in college, I
met several people who practiced various forms of the occult, including
a professor of one of my classes, a man with white hair. I was not yet
Christian and was raised to be inclusive and open minded about these
things. I remember trying spells as a kid that I saw in movies. Now
popular movies and shows are openly portraying witches sympathetically
or as heroes.

Atheists and moral liberals treat people like children, especially men,
who they begin to emasculate at a young age. This is why homosexuality
and transgenderism have become so prevalent over the past half a
century. It's interesting that the same people who say that it's wrong
to be intolerant to homosexuality will intentionally use it as an insult
to good men. Effective, useful, morally good men are a threat to bad
people and their false kingdoms built on injustice. Men who can
withstand pain and don't cave to threats are actually able to make the
world a more just and good place. Men are a reflection of the Father,
which is also why they are also hated today by a God-hating world,
especially fathers.

Makeup is a sin. It seems to come from Eve's desire to alter exteriors
to create a false paradise, creating false beauty by externals instead
of true beauty which comes from a good and virtuous heart. Makeup says
*this is how I look*, when it's a lie. Makeup says *God is not the
perfect artist, but I am*. Makeup says *virtue is not moral but
physical*. Makeup says *my definition of beauty is superior to God's; I
define true beauty.* Vanity means emptiness, and our definition of
beauty comes from nothing, from pure imagination, from thin air. God's
definition of beauty comes from reality, from himself, from the only
true existence.

## Science

Modern theologians act like the New Testament writers were ignorant and
superstitious. For example, they will say that the Bible records
epilepsy as being caused by a demon because people simply didn't
understand science back then. People at that time were not ignorant on
many laws of science or clueless about the concepts. These modern
skeptics within theology have given into the fear of being scoffed at by
atheistic scientists, whose approval they seem to esteem and desire for
some mysterious reason. Fear is deeply linked with worship, so it
wouldn't be altogether wrong to say that caving to atheistic pressure is
a form of worship. No one should desire a fool's approval, empty
promises, or even threats. Science is concerned with *how* things
happen, but theology with *why*. Just because a thing happened
naturally, doesn't mean it wasn't caused by a supernatural being. Job
was afflicted with natural disasters by the direct intervention of Satan
and permission of God. Just because a meteor probably destroyed Sodom
and Gomorrah doesn't exclude the possibility that the meteor was guided
to earth by an angel or demon, out of God's justice.

Evolution may be how the body of Adam was formed, but the body of Eve
seemed to have been directly created by a miracle.

I can remain inconclusive about the Big Bang and Evolution theories. I
don't have an obligation to investigate the data behind either theory
and come to any conclusion. Neither have been confirmed as absolute
facts. Both have variations that are compatible with the infallible
facts put forth by Catholicism. Those that insist that a conclusion must
be drawn, are they who only want to use this to disprove the existence
of God. But if I investigate whether Jesus of Nazareth rose from the
dead as an objective and historical fact, and if I conclude that he did,
I now open the path to believing in Christianity and the supernatural.
The only reason anyone would insist that I still investigate other
scientific questions is to try to persuade me to abandon my conclusion
about Jesus in favor of the other questions. But even then, I wouldn't
need to, since they can be reconciled. As long as there's a possibility
of reconciling them, then the Big Bang and Evolution are useless to
disprove Christianity.

I have long given up a natural desire to pursue the advancement of
science. Science is not inherently a net benefit to mankind; it's
neutral at best, and often enables far more evil than good. Every form
of science can be used for either good or deeply destructive evil. With
antibiotics came narcotics. With the internet came countless addictions
to gambling and pornography. With cars came child sex trafficking. With
airplanes came islands of abuse. Science merely changes circumstances,
allowing greater good or evil to occur. And the evil seems to always
outweigh the good. Saints use science to help others. Atheists and bad
people use science to help themselves, to further their own comfort and
ease, to make a false paradise on earth. That's why they always get
excited about new technology. It truly is cultish behavior to hype
children up into thinking that advancing science is the best possible
thing they could do with their time and talents throughout their lives.

STEM is based on an atheistic understanding of intelligence and reason.
Reason comes from God, who is called the *Logos* in John 1:1. The
*logos* can be translated word, reason, or logic. Being made in the
image and likeness of God partly means we all have words, reason, and
logic. Animals have these also, just as they have life and movement, but
they possess these aspects of God in an almost infinitely lower degree
than we do.

Sin is the primary thing that makes it difficult for us to reason, not
lack of education. Intelligence is something each person has to
different degrees, distributed by God's choice. Intelligence is
orthogonal to reason. Only Darwinistic racism considers having higher
intelligence a virtue, or something that makes you a better person. But
intelligence is like height, it's neutral. Taller people are simply more
responsible for reaching things off the higher shelf to give to shorter
people, that's why they're given height. People with more intelligence
are simply more responsible to people with less, to take ideas off the
higher shelves of human knowledge, and make it more accessible to
everyone else. This is exactly the opposite of what modern academia
does, which exalts itself and tries to make you think you need them,
just so that they can get your money.

Wisdom is not intelligence and foolishness is not a lack of
intelligence. The most naturally unintelligent person could still be the
wisest person on earth, and the person with the highest intelligence
could be the greatest fool the world has ever seen. Wisdom means being
connected with the *logos* in our hearts through our morals. It means
seeing things from God's perspective, the eternal, infinite perspective
of the infinitely perfect God. Intelligence is nothing more than an
ability to hold and dissect thoughts. But without looking at these
thoughts through God's eyes, the thoughts themselves are useless, and
nothing useful can be done with them or brought out of them.

We never do anything without some reason. Even if we can't articulate
the reason, or aren't fully aware of it consciously, the reason is still
present. Intuition is a valid form of reason, it's the unspoken word.
Just as Sacred Scripture is the written Word of God, and Sacred
Tradition is the unwritten Word of God, and both are needed and
complement one another, Reason is the written Word in our hearts,
intuition the unwritten Word. For some years now, people have been
teaching their children from a very young age not to trust their
intuition, especially boys. This creates people of the Spock stereotype,
who have a very specific but useless kind of intelligence, because they
lack other forms of it. After they're trained to be like this, they're
then diagnosed as essentially incapable people, and treated accordingly,
with a condescending and unjustified pity. It's like poisoning someone
to paralyze them and then pretending they were paralyzed from birth, for
the sake of having someone to take care of in order to become the
virtuous maternal hero of the story. This is in large part why there are
so few capable and just men today.

Children who ask *why* about everything are the best philosophers. Out
of the mouths of babes and infants thou wilt draw perfect praise, said
Jesus. Science deals with *how*, but religion answers *why*. Why is far
more important than how. If there is no reason behind creation, then
there's no reason behind anything, and everything is essentially
arbitrary. I was in college when I first heard someone, a sociology
professor, say that it was after the medieval ages when people
transitioned from saying an apple is red because of the blood of Christ,
to it being red because of scientific reasons. I had never heard
anything like that in my whole life, that God made apples because of the
blood of Christ, and it opened up a new way of looking at things that
never left me, and probably helped me become Christian. People who deny
the *Logos* are always unhappy at the end of the day.

A significant amount of scientific news is simply a reliving of the
events of Eden, in which experts declare that some new discovery or
information proves that God was wrong all along. Like the dragon, they
make themselves the experts of reality, casting doubt on God's divinely
revealed truth by using lies, misinformation, subtle logical fallacies,
and the false hope that the moral responsibility that God commanded of
us no longer applies.

Environmentalists, which are pretty much always atheists in their morals
if not also in their actual beliefs, panic about climate change and
rightly recognize that the world is ending. Conservatives, who also
generally have a very incorrect understanding of God, scoff at them, as
if this life will continue indefinitely, and as if God's plan is for us
to have paradise on earth forever. Both are gravely wrong and misguided.
This life is finite and temporary, for each of us, as well as for all of
us collectively. Our resources are finite, and we have to make
appropriate use of them. God is merciful and patient with our ignorance
and sinfulness, but he will not be infinitely patient. He will let us
use up all the oil and other non-renewable forms of energy, and allow us
to fall back to 17^th^ century means of energy such as manpower and
animal power. We have no inherent need for electricity, and I don't see
any reason God would prevent us from running out of most or all of it.

Why do college degrees give credibility? People with the same exact
degree and qualifications often disagree with one another, so how do we
know which one is right? Who has the objective authority to decide which
of the two is more correct? When it comes to religion, God alone has
this authority, and entrusted it to his Church on earth. So the Church's
Councils for example are infallible in their declarations, the world
having God's promise that the Holy Spirit will protect Councils from
pronouncing error or anything false. But outside theology, there is no
official arbiter of truth. God never promised to give declarations of
infallibility in the fields of medicine, biology, economy, or politics.
The only guarantee of correctness outside theology is simply success. If
it works, then the principles behind it must be true. If a scientist's
experiment works, then he's apparently authoritative. This is also true
with moral theology. If the moral teaching produces saints, then it's a
good and useful teaching. But in the secular world, there's no reason to
blindly trust anyone simply because they wrote a book or have a PhD.
Such qualifications can be a useful heuristic to narrow down which of
the 8 billion voices we should consider listening to, but there are
quicker and more reliable ways to filter this down. Lately, such degrees
prove nothing except that a person has the time, money, and perseverance
to obtain the degree. At the end of the day, when a person makes a
claim, the reasons and evidence behind the claim are all that matters.
If the reasons and evidence correctly prove the claim, then the claim is
worthy of belief. This means that each individual person has to judge
for themselves which conclusions to believe, and not simply trust
experts because they are called "experts" by anyone.

Where is Heaven? Jesus has a physical body, and so does Mary, yet
they're not on earth. It seems that after the Resurrection, St. Peter
says that all creation will be burned up, and St. John seems to imply
that this burning will be a transformation into the final form of the
eternal paradise. But in the meantime, where is Heaven? Where is God's
throne where Jesus sits and grants for us to sit with him? Where is this
house with many rooms that he's preparing for us right now? I'm guessing
it's where Jesus ascended to: the very literal heavens. In other words,
everywhere else in the universe besides earth. All the planets will be
ours to explore together for endless time, in an infinitely growing
universe. But there's probably one special planet that has God's special
Palace. Colonizing Mars or any other planet is a dream and a delusion,
and its attempt and failure is probably going to initiate the very end
times, causing fire to rain down on earth purely by the scientific fault
of prideful unrepentant humanity, like a new tower of Babel being struck
down by inevitability, because the only way to the heavens is through
being morally upright by God's standards. Hell is probably the inside of
the earth. It says that those damned to hell forever will ask the
mountains to fall on them and the hills to hide them.

The first humans really did live for up to nine hundred years, give or
take. This is not a scientific impossibility. Nothing in science
absolutely proves that humans always aged the way we do now, and that it
starts when it does now. Scientists barely understand the aging process
itself, or why we even have to age. The fact that they're trying to
prevent aging from happening in the first place is proof that it is
genetically possible, which ought to silence their scoffing when we say
that it actually did happen for the first few generations of humanity.
And why wouldn't God allow the beginning of the human race to live
longer, in order for older generations to more easily pass on knowledge
to younger generations without having yet invented written language?

If I had to live in a world with only art or only science, I'd
absolutely choose art. Art elevates the soul, inspires the heart,
reflects beauty, and encourages us toward heroic and noble virtues.
Science merely changes the neutral circumstances of our lives. Instead
of learning how to domesticate and ride horses, we build and maintain
car factories. The amount of work we do with all these scientific
advances hasn't truly changed, it's just become different, more tedious,
less fulfilling, and made the world a duller place.

## Government

Some form of democracy seems to inherently be the most just form of
government in this lifetime. The Church has not officially declared this
that I know of, but the 1912 Catholic Encyclopedia's article on Civil
Authority seems to have strong reasons to justify this, which correlates
very well to Romans 13, in which Paul implies at least that there is no
divine right of kings, and asserts that even corrupt governments and
revolutions are authorized by God. St. Aquinas and Erasmus agreed that
the collective people hold the actual authority.

The beginning of democracy and the principle behind it seem both to stem
from the fact that Adam obeyed to the voice of Eve instead of the words
of God. Since society wanted to govern itself, society now gets to
governs itself. Since the people wouldn't submit to God's restrictions,
the people continue to submit to the people's collective restrictions.

But democracy is inherently going to fail, as it is the kingdom of the
Dragon, who founded it in Eden and continues to rule over it. The
kingdom of the dragon is inherently a democracy in which every will
reigns supreme. The kingdom of God is inherently a monarchy in which we
all do God's will. The finality of the kingdom of the Dragon is the
eternal Hell in which each will reigns supreme, no matter how
incompatible, divergent, and harmful, which inherently ends in the
destruction of society. The finality of the kingdom of God is Heaven, in
which God's law reigns supreme, forever unimpeded by our own
fallibility.

There is no divine right of kings. Any government that rules is
instituted and authorized by God. Even evil governments are allowed by
God to exist for a while, until they inevitably fail from within or
without. Just because a government is overthrown successfully by God's
permission, the fact of his allowing it does not justify it in the sight
of God as not sinful. But even trying to overthrow an evil government
doesn't seem to be sinful, even if it fails.

The kingdom of God rewards good, the kingdom of the Dragon rewards evil.
It's probably not likely for a saint to be a successful king for a long
time in this life. Good morals are rewarded in the next kingdom, and
this kingdom is only a necessary evil for a time. God's principles to
not translate well to the Dragon's principles, and are not useful for
prolonging the Dragon's kingdom.

In the UK, it's reportedly now illegal to pray silently near an abortion
clinic, or to repost videos on social media that cause others anxiety.
In other words, it's allegedly illegal there to hurt people's feelings.
This precedent was set by King Henry VIII about five centuries ago. He
forced everyone to declare that his marriage was not immoral or else be
executed, like Sts. Thomas More and Bishop Fisher were. The movie *A Man
For All Seasons* (both the 1966 and 1988 versions) are absolute must
watch movies to learn about integrity, the right to private conscience,
political ethics, and religious freedom.

There is a difficult question of how to restore justice to a government
that has become so corrupt that all official and lawful means prove
useless for long periods of time. It doesn't help to plead desperately
with people who have rejected conscience and have no incentive to stop
committing injustices for profit.

Theocracy doesn't seem like a good form of government in this life. New
citizens will be born into it who do not agree with the religion forced
upon them by the government. Adults who do believe it in will sometimes
change their minds and disbelieve. Laws should be baseline restrictions
on all people collectively, to create an environment where everyone of
different beliefs and morals can work out their own life story without
genuinely unnecessary obstacles. Laws are inherently restrictive of our
free will, and should prevent serious injustices agreed upon by the
collective people based on their own experiences. But delusion is very
real and widespread, which makes such agreement difficult, and nobody is
inherently guaranteed to be immune to delusion. A nation that can't
agree to disagree and at least shake hands on some basics will
eventually fall from within, just as Satan will eventually rise up
against Satan and his kingdom will fall.

## The Gospel by Gen Z

Many people have called The Gospel by Gen Z blasphemous or sacrilegious.
I wondered this for a long time too, and remained on the fence most of
that time. But a few things helped me come to a conclusion recently.

Is it wrong to say Jonah nope'd out of there when God asked him to go to
Ninevah? Or to say Jesus told the storm to force quit? Or to say that
Joshua said to the sun and moon pause, and God said I'll allow it? None
of these are the exact words the Bible uses, but none of them change the
meaning of the verse or story either. None of them bear false witness to
the intentions or character of the individuals in the stories, or to the
Holy Spirit's intentions who coauthored them.

Whereas I've seen Christian influencers on social media get praise for
actually misusing the Bible to get a cheap laugh. One called "the Bible
Teacher" made a video that has 229k likes in which John mocks how slow
Peter is after reaching the empty tomb first. Read Choi got 157k likes
for making Jacob out to be eager to wrestle an angel out of some kind of
arrogant pride, which he certainly did not have. On April 3^rd^, 2024,
he made a video interpreting several verses like this. He makes Jesus
out to unjustly curse the fig tree out of pettiness, and has the
disciples deciding to write this down to mock Jesus. He has Jesus
ruthlessly mock Judas in a petty, arrogant way. He makes Peter out to be
a literal crybaby for being rebuked by Jesus, and has Jesus command
Matthew to write it down to mock Peter. He has Jesus disrespectfully
talking down to the pharisees for their accusations. I don't mean to
accuse these two influencers of meaning to do wrong, but I would never
make or watch videos that misrepresent the Bible and holy people for a
laugh and likes. This feels too close to what St. Jude said about those
who revile the glorious ones.

Now look at what I wrote in my book. I called Mary a pick me girl for
God. Everyone I've talked to agrees that a pick me girl changes her
personality to try to attract and get the approval of someone she wants
a relationship with. I agree there is a negative connotation to this.
But when I add the phrase "for God", this changes and is meant to change
that connotation. The relationship is obviously no longer meant to be
sexual or marriage. The change to personality is now inward and true
instead of outward and false. I said she was simping for God in prayer.
Simping is quite literally worship, and this is why it's gross and
weird, because men should not be worshipping women, since they are
equals. But God is literally the one we should be worshipping, so
simping for God is always good and valid.

One more point of evidence, and my first clue that they were wrong, is
that the people who were accusing my book of being immoral, they
themselves often did wrong. They would curse and use foul language. They
would have posts and reposts and profile pictures glorifying villains in
movies. They would be uninterested in actual conversation about the
topic, and simply declare that they are objectively right on the
question of my book. These are all signs that these people are
definitely not to be taken credibly, and may even be genuine character
evidence *against* their conclusions.

I never used AI to write even one sentence of The Gospel by Gen Z. I
spent about a year and a half writing about half of it and doing
research for it, mostly in my spare time. Then I spent about 45 days
finishing it, putting it all together, finding images for it,
typesetting it, and publishing it. After that, about 10-15 copycat books
came out, all of which seemed to be written by AI. These people simply
pressed a button and got a significant number of sales. They didn't earn
that money, and they don't deserve that money. The quality of their
books is also relatively low, and they often include genuine heresies
and even foul language like "af" which I refused to put in my book. I'm
not saying I deserved all the money I received, but I don't see how they
deserved any; AI created theirs, they didn't. And AI is almost entirely
just disguised plagiarism.

## Church teaching

When you first convert, you may drink up Scripture and Church teachings
like water, and this is a good grace and should be cooperated with. The
soul was parched and thirsty and is now being quenched so that it can
overflow with living water later.

Theologians are not inherently correct about some conclusion just
because they say they are. Catholic apologetic websites and professors
are not infallible, nor are priests who have PhD's in theology, no
matter how popular they are. I've actually heard a priest openly say you
can lie under oath and it's not a sin as long as you believe differently
in your heart, citing a "Thomistic forum." When confronted, he doubled
down on it. Thomas More would certainly disagree with this priest. Each
person can and must make up their own mind about specific moral
questions they're facing. They are of course required to do reasonable
research on what the Church officially teaches. And if the Church has an
official, definitive answer to the moral question, there is no more
question, it is fully answered. Even the Saints are not infallible. But
when two or three Saints agree on a specific moral, this makes a very
strong argument that they're correct, especially when they're separated
by time, place, and culture.

It\'s inherently difficult to determine which teachings on faith or
morals is officially binding. There are several official ways of
determining it, and many official sources, which include Scripture,
Councils, *ex cathedra* statements, prayers officially inserted into the
liturgy, the unanimous consensus of all Bishops, and probably more.
These all combine into what we call the magisterial teaching of the
Church. The simplest way to figure out what the magisterial teaching is
for any given question is to look into the Catechism of the Catholic
Church, which describes itself as containing all the teachings of the
Church. If a teaching is in the Catechism, it is official, binding on
our conscience, and must be accepted. That doesn't mean the Catechism is
the source of these teachings, but rather it draws from the sources,
heavily quoting councils, saints, and Scripture. So when a certain
theologian said that it's not binding to believe Mary never committed a
personal sin, he was simply wrong, sine this is explicitly stated in the
Catechism; it then seems to be a binding teaching that she remained
sinless her whole life. Everything in the Catechism is part of core
theology, which must be believed by every Catholic. Everything not in
the Catechism is part of speculative theology, which means we all
equally get to guess at the right answer. That doesn't mean all guesses
are equal, and this is where theologians are allowed and encouraged to
compete, as St. Augustine and St. Jerome debated and sometimes
disagreed.

The Church mainly gives us raw facts and conclusions, and leaves it up
to us to draw out the reasoning that makes it make sense and explains
why it's true. The infallibility is behind the conclusion, not the
reasoning. For example, in the lengthy document pronouncing that the
Immaculate Conception is official doctrine and must be believed, only
maybe one or two sentences in that entire document is binding on the
faithful. There rest is given to us to help justify and explain why it's
not unreasonable. It can be useful, but if it's not convincing, we can
find other reasons to justify it that satisfy our own particular way of
reasoning.

The teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas, also called Thomism, are severely
overrated today. Converts embrace it enthusiastically because it's miles
better than the best theology that the Protestant world has to offer,
and because it sounds smart. I've even seen High-Church Protestants
using it to defend the Trinity on social media livestreams. And it was
useful for it's time, but not anymore. Systematic philosophies like
Thomism start with metaphysics, which is always based on their
understanding of literal physics. Thomism is based on Aristotle's
metaphysics and thus physics, but Aristotle was seriously incorrect
about physics, and we know far more about physics in the 21^st^ century
than he did. In fact, his way of thinking is so unintuitive to modern
people that you need to have the equivalent of a bachelor's degree and
learn entirely new words to think like he did. Catholicism is inherently
non-philosophical and orthogonal to it. You can unite Catholicism with
any philosophy, including Confucianism. Or you can do what many of the
earliest Church Fathers did, and not use any formal or systematic
philosophy at all.

Catholic books are not infallible just because they have an *imprimatur*
or *nihil obstat*. These marks are merely the opinion of a bishop, or
some theologian he delegated this opinion to, that nothing in a given
book seems to be against Catholic doctrine or morals. It doesn't
guarantee that this statement is true, only that the bishop thinks it's
true. But bishops are not infallible either, and can be wrong. I'm not
aware of any Catholic doctrine that says that these marks are somehow
protected by the Holy Spirit from being incorrect. I've read Catholic
books that contain very serious moral errors.

Ultra traditionalist communities usually have serious unchastity
epidemics. St. Jude said that those who reject authority defile the
flesh. St. Paul says that those who are inflated with pride fall to
unchastity. Rejecting authority comes from pride, as disobedience is the
daughter of pride. Those who love to criticize priests and bishops, and
even claim that Pope Francis is not a real pope or that Vatican II is
not a valid council, these types of people usually flock to very
traditional parishes with Latin Masses, sometimes even illicitly held.
Fr. Ripperger said that such communities have a disproportionate amount
of unchastity mentioned in their confessions. It makes sense: when
you're overwhelmed with sin, you look for a solution. When you reject
the cross, which is the only true solution, you look for external
solutions. This is why rad trads scruple over every little detail of
liturgy and get so angry about the Novus Ordo. They say to themselves,
if only external things were better, I could maybe stop sinning. If only
others stopped doing wrong, my temptations would go away. This is never
true. They're like mean spirited children who tattle on their siblings
to get them in trouble. Instead of bending themselves to the laws of
God, they try to bend everything else to their own will. This is also
why many liberals are so full of anger and hatred, even if it only comes
out under pressure. If we submit to the cross, we will have no problem
submitting to lawful authority, and we will have peace, even when the
whole world is on fire.

## Speaking evil

The Pope recently said gossip can kill. St. Francis de Sales said there
is the life of the body, of the soul, and of the reputation in society,
and that destroying a reputation through gossip or slander is very truly
murdering someone. Gossip is saying bad things about someone that may be
true, but don't need to be said; slander is flat out lying. People are
meant to live together in society, even when they disagree or don't like
one another. Speaking badly of others can very truly remove someone from
that society to some degree, or even fully ostracize them from it. And
very often, the facts are misrepresented, skewed, embellished, or even
just made up. St. James wrote a significant amount against this sin in
his letter, saying the tongue is an evil member of the body that sets
creation ablaze with hellfire. Jesus says that false witness and slander
come from an evil heart. St. Peter says speaking evil of others causes
you to hate life and not have good days.

We can't call people evil. By the judgment we pronounce against others,
God will judge us. St. Paul does say some people are wicked and evil,
but he doesn't name or implicate the individuals. He does warn about
specific individuals who are dangerous and harmful, but he doesn't
condemn those people as intending to do evil or having malice. We can
warn people that some people may cause harm, but we can't condemn them.
We can suspect people of doing things for malicious or evil intentions,
but we can never know for sure. No one knows another person's conscience
or heart or secret thoughts, only God can discern the thoughts and
intentions of the heart, penetrating between joint and marrow, soul and
spirit, and before him nothing is hidden but all is laid bare to the
eyes of the only judge each person will have to face at the end of their
lives. Our neighbor's conscience is as impenetrable as our own is, and
just as we would want others to judge our intentions with the most
charity and kindness possible, we ought to do the same for them. Even
when we truly do have malicious intent, those who assume the best of us
can often soften our hearts and turn us away from that malice and toward
love and hope. We ought to do the same for others.

But if we do fall, first we must ask God for forgiveness, then go to
confession as soon as reasonable. If it's not seriously imprudent, we
should apologize to those we have done wrong to and scandalized. If we
slandered or gossiped, we need to reverse the negative effect with
everyone we've spoken to, and try to repair the reputation we helped
destroy. It may still be prudent to avoid contact with someone who you
wronged, at least until things blow over, if ever.

Don't worry about people thinking badly about you or you or highly of
wrongdoers. Everyone's character will be eventually manifested publicly
by their fruits and actions. If a person is truly bad, they will
eventually destroy their own reputation, you don't need to do it for
them. That's not to say you can't protect people from tangible harm if
necessary. But this doesn't extend to people teaching lies and spreading
falsehood. The best defense against such evil is to live a good life and
have patience. Jesus says the storm is what will destroy the house built
on the sand. Let the storm do its job, and do your own job of building
your house on the rock, so that you can still be standing by the end of
the storm. All followers of lies eventually flee because of the useless
of those lies to help them in real storms.

## Online debates

Religious debates on the internet are very spiritually dangerous. The
people debating are always led into temptations to pride, arrogance,
cold-heartedness, and despair. Having a following, an audience, a
popular voice, is a terrible temptation to pride and vanity.

Justin Martyr held the first social media religious debate, in his book
the Dialogue with Trypho. It followed exactly the same format as
livestream debates. The two posed questions and gave answers, they went
on tangents, there was an audience who often chimed in or cheered them
on, and it ended with both sides thinking they won. This has always been
how debates about truth have been; human nature doesn't change.

Don't participate in online debates. It's nothing but useless ego
battles. The only real benefit is that it becomes a shortcut for hearing
the best arguments of both sides, but this is merely a starting point in
researching the arguments themselves and the reasons and data behind
them by other means such as books. Nobody ever actually wins a debate;
there's no such thing as winning a debate. Most people on both sides of
the debate never change their minds, don't have any intention of
changing their minds, aren't open to having their minds changed, and
just want their side to win. This doesn't mean their conclusion is
unreasonable or wrong, only that the audience and participants are not
truly investigating truth, but promoting their own conclusions as true.
Before they joined the debate, they already had a side they were on, and
they simply want that side to win. They just watch the debate to
strengthen their position or learn new arguments for their side. A very
few people in the audience are genuinely on the fence and open to
hearing reasons for both sides, and sometimes these people do change
their minds. But most debates use the same arguments over and over, and
usually they do it far too verbosely and with too much filler and fluff,
and it's easier and faster to learn these arguments through books or
articles. A significant amount of the time, maybe almost all the time,
people fall to pride and arrogance when debating or watching debates.
They always get burnt out eventually, too, even if sometimes it takes a
few years.

Sinners debate to prove truth wrong, because it shouts loudly in their
ears. Every day, the truth is too loud for them, and they feel the need
to silence it. But they can't argue with the truth directly, since it's
abstract. But they also can't sleep at night with a guilty conscience
while living in sin. So to fix this without repenting, they need to
justify their logical fallacies, which are all sins truly are. They seek
out someone who represents and defends the truth, and try to prove them
wrong. They're obsessed with winning debates, and they will keep going
until they convince themselves they've officially won. But often, their
opponents simple give up, because they're tired of going in circles
pointlessly. They recognize that the sinner simply can't see past their
own logical fallacies, and they recognize that it's a waste of time,
leave the debate, and do something worthwhile with their time. But the
sinner doesn't want to end the debate without the opponent admitting a
loss. So he usually resorts to using emotional manipulation to get the
person to stay. They say you're running, you're scared, you know I'm
right, or other such nonsense. Jesus tells us not to interact with them,
and to let them learn through their own trial and error that they're
wrong.

When something is useful, this is the best apologetics possible for it.
Proving that it's true comes after finding that it's useful. Some have
tried praying out of desperation before they truly believed that it will
help, and were surprised by the confusing fact that it worked.

Those who mock the true religion and desperately need to win debates
proving it wrong, these same people lead such sad and miserable lives
that their own life itself becomes the only testimony needed against
their own doctrine and how useless it truly is.

The Church is represented by Noah's ark. St. Paul said that *unless you
stay in the ship, you cannot be saved*. Someone in the ark does not need
to prove to someone drowning that they themselves are not drowning. They
feel no panic or urge to prove to others that they're right, they simply
know it by the fact that they're not drowning. That's not to say
everyone in the Church is also in the ark. Those in mortal sin are
drowning from water in the lungs they haven't coughed up. But some
outside the ark are being pulled in by lifeboats, and are on their way
to converting soon enough, such as catechumens. Mary is also called the
Ark of the Covenant. She contained Jesus, the true manna that came down
from Heaven. Unless you remain in the heart of Mary, you cannot be
saved.

When someone disagrees with you about religion, just wait and see how
both your lives play out by the end of each. That will be the ultimate
test of which religion was more useful for surviving injustices and
calamities, and therefore more true and correct.

## Red flags

If you genuinely want to be good, you will try to help others and make
them happy. You will to some degree look for the approval of those you
think are good. Be careful with this, it's a mistake that's very
dangerous to your soul. People are not infallible, and a bad person will
immediately recognize this good desire in you and take full advantage of
it, abusing you in the process. Seeing your willingness to do good, and
seeing you submitting your judgment about what is good to their
approval, bad people will use guilt trips and other forms of emotional
manipulation to get you to do exactly what they want you to, to train
you into becoming their own little perfect slave. Do not seek the
approval of anyone on earth, only of Jesus Christ and of his mother
Mary. Read the Bible carefully and prayerfully to learn what God thinks
is good and approves of, and how to do it.

If you read Scripture, and get from it that you must carry your cross,
and someone in your life pleads with you to read it again to try to get
a different interpretation from it, one that doesn't require carrying a
cross, the person is to be avoided to the fullest extent possible.
Fulton Sheen said that the antichrist is the anti-cross.

People uninterested in morals become interested in mythology, because it
has the appearance of the supernatural but without the power of it,
which is moral power, the ability to become good. Jesus influenced
people to become Saints, not supernatural by nature, not mythological
heroes, but people who were genuinely extraordinarily good. People who
love mythology hate the idea that Enoch never sinned, they prefer to
think he's part of some sort of comic book story, where he didn't die
because God has a plan for him as one of the two witnesses of the end
times. These people think the Nephilim were physical giants, the
children of angels physically mating with human women, rather than the
children of mixed morals from their parents.

Trying to communicate with a bad person and fix problems in a
relationship with them will never work. If they have no interest in a
good relationship or in being good, they will abuse your good heart and
hopes for their own advantage, they will avoid following logical trails,
they'll go in circles, commit fallacies, and they will not budge or back
down until you're exhausted, confused, hopeless of a resolution, and
concede their points and forfeit the truth. Look for this red flag early
on, and if you find it in someone, abandon them quickly.

## Modesty

Modesty is often vanity in disguise. Countless women love their own
beauty and worship themselves as goddesses. They dress to show off their
beauty as if they're God's gift to humanity. When they convert to
Christianity, they often start wearing dresses and veils for the sake of
"modesty," but it's actually just a cultural difference in acceptable
clothing. True modesty involves dressing and acting in a way that avoids
standing out beyond reason.

Modesty means dressing and acting in such a way that automatically
answers the questions *who are you* and *why are you* here without
saying a word. It's just as inappropriate for a king to wear pajamas to
court as it is for a janitor to wear royal robes when mopping a floor.
We are commanded to wear clothes, and Jesus says God will provide for
this need if we first seek his kingdom and righteousness. But we still
get some choice in what we wear. First and foremost, the clothing must
be practical for our duties. But they can and should also be chosen
based on symbolism of who we are, what our duties are, and what
principles we value. This is also true of shaving beards and styling
hair. Surely God is pleased if we try to wear red on Fridays to honor
Good Friday, or blue on Saturdays to honor the Blessed Virgin Mary.

Modesty not only encompasses what we wear, but also our demeanor and
attitude, how we carry ourselves. Speaking loudly and boastfully is
immodest since it calls undue attention to ourselves. Everyone respects
someone who speaks rarely but whose words are powerful and inspiring.
Most people talk too much and wear away their hearers by too many words,
draining people's social batteries. Most things don't need to be said,
and can be figured out without someone saying it. Here's a benefit to
socializing to some degree, and there's room for small talk within that,
but I've seen people throw away far too many hours per day this way.

## Mary

Devotion to Mary is so necessary because devotion to God is already
imposed on us by matter of fact, by the fact that the laws of reality,
like cause and effect, inherently require obeying God's commandments to
simply survive. Trying to survive is already a form of devotion to God,
obeying the Father. What we need beyond this is an encouraging voice who
tells us it's not all bad, it's not the end of the world even when it
feels like it, it's going to be okay, and it's ultimately all for our
good. This is the maternal voice. This is what we read throughout the
entire letter to the Hebrews, which was likely written by Mary and the
Holy Spirit, both of which have this maternal role within salvation
history of encouraging and comforting us during the necessary
afflictions, trials, and sufferings of life. God, life, nature, and all
reality tells us we have to push forward to grow; Mary and the Holy
Spirit tell us we can make it through and it won't be too difficult even
when it seems unbearable.

# A Brief Defense of Catholicism

## Praying to Saints

It's very important that we ask people to pray for us, but especially
people we know with certainty to be holy. People on earth might be
faking holiness, so their prayers would be weaker. The people in heaven
are guaranteed to be holy.

Some people say that holiness just means being a believer. This is such
a cope. Even children understand that holiness means being like God and
close to God, until bad people brainwash that out of them because good
people prick their consciences and make it hard for sinners to sleep at
night.

We all know that Mother Theresa, Vincent de Paul, and Francis of Assisi
were exceptionally good people, willing to do anything to help the poor,
even giving their last penny. These people are holy, they truly are
Saints.

Many people think prayer is worship. But the word pray literally just
means to earnestly entreat, to beseech, or to ask. When we pray to God,
it's a form of worship simply because he's God. The phrase "pray tell"
still exists, though it's a bit archaic. Even in modern legal systems,
we still use the phrase "\[I\] pray the court to grant \[some
request\]."

Praying to the saints just means asking the saints to pray to God for
us, to obtain grace for us. If they can hear us, and if they can pray
for us, then it's no different than asking someone on earth to pray for
you.

So the only question is, can they hear us, and do they pray for us?
Revelation 5:8 shows definitively that they can and do. It says that
some humans, who have conquered and are now in Heaven, are offering the
prayers of other humans to God. The only reasonable way to interpret
this verse, and in fact the only way the Church has ever interpreted it
as far as I know, is that, when we say Mary pray or us, she does.

It's especially important to ask Mary, the Mother of God, to pray for
us, but I'll explain that in a later section.

## The Rosary

Jesus said not to pray with vain repetition. However, he himself
repeated the same words three times in the Garden of Gethsemane. When he
says vain repetition, he clarifies that he means not to pray like pagans
who don't know God. And what do pagans do? They try to cast spells. They
don't understand that God is their father. They don't understand that he
loves us and wants to bless us. And most of all, they don't understand
that the purpose of life is to adopt moral responsibility, so they try
to get good things for free.

The Rosary is two things: asking Mary to pray for us, and meditating on
the stories of the gospels in order to absorb their morals and their
inherent power. The ten Hail Mary's are roughly the perfect amount of
time psychologically for us to let our mind and imagination wander into
a given topic in order to find some inspiration from it.

The purpose of a good drama is to inspire us to be good despite all
losses. It's to remind us to be noble and fight the good fight, and
persevere in the face of adversity. This is why we are constantly hungry
for new films and TV shows and plays, and always were throughout
history.

The Gospel of Jesus Christ is by far the best drama, and the most
effective one. But we hardly think about it, and are always looking for
something else instead. This is the nature of our itching ears that Paul
talks about.

When we pray the Rosary, we spend a couple minutes thinking about when
Gabriel came to Mary in Galilee and told her God wanted her to be the
Mother of his son. Then we spend a few minutes thinking about Mary's
journey to her elderly cousin Elizabeth, the compassion she had for her
in her mysterious and physically demanding pregnancy, and how John leapt
for joy at the sound of Mary's voice. Then we think about the shepherds
who were visited by an army of angels who sung them the first Christmas
carol.

This is good, and I dare say that the more people practice this truly,
not just out of habit but really think about these mysterious events,
the closer we will get to world peace.

## No One is Good

This is so absurd and theologically wrong that it's almost not worth
refuting. It's true that Jesus says no one is good but God alone. But
the whole point of this life is to become good by accepting God's grace.
Countless saints have proven this by their exceptionally good lives,
including Thomas More, Augustine, Joan of Arc, Benedict of Nursia,
Francis of Assisi, Mother Theresa, Padre Pio, John Paul II, Teresa of
Avila, Therese of Lisieux, Anthony of the Desert, Paul and Peter and all
the Apostles, and literally over 10,000 others.

The only people who struggle with this are people who are not good and
who have never met anyone good, which unfortunately is all too common
today; as Jesus says, *in those days, because wickedness will multiply,
most men's love will grow cold*. And *if they do this when the wood is
green, what will they do when it is dry?*

The quickest cure for this heresy is to read literally any of the lives
of the saints.

## Faith and Works

Many Christians think you can be saved by faith alone. This is
unbiblical, and utterly absurd. We are saved from the delusions we dove
into, and from doing things the wrong way, both of which inherently and
inevitably lead to awful results. This is why John says *Jesus came into
the world bringing grace and truth*, and why Paul says that *God sends
upon them a strong delusion, to make them believe what is false, so that
all may be condemned who did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in
unrighteousness.*

This error is so obviously wrong to most people that it's hardly worth
proving wrong. James already did this well enough by saying *show me
your faith apart from works, and by my works I'll show you my faith.*
It's like saying, show me the color red without an object, and by an
apple I will show you the color red. The thing is just an abstract
concept until it's made real. And faith is made real by actions; before
that it's just a theory. The good works are *the refining fire that
tests* *whether your faith, more precious than gold, is genuine*.

The only reason people ever believe they're saved by faith alone is
because they themselves can't stop doing wrong, and they gave up and
just accepted the lie that maybe you don't have to stop doing wrong.
What a sad and pointless defeat that leads to so many wasted lives. A
person with a good heart, who wants to be good and stop doing wrong,
will find the truth and grace in the Catholic Church, especially in the
seven sacraments.

The wolves in sheep's clothing who teach that you can sin and still go
to heaven by faith are the ones Jude and Peter talk about when they say
many people will *pervert the grace of God into licentiousness*, and
that word licentiousness means "it's okay, you're allowed to." These
authors reassure us that these people will suffer greatly in this life
also, not just hell. And of course they do: how do good things come from
doing bad? How can you live in a delusion, bend logic to your will, and
expect things to go well for long?

## All Sins are Equal

Even Jesus didn't believe that all sins are equal, when he said to
Pontius Pilate, *he who delivered me up to you has the greater sin.*
Some sins are worse than others, and this should be obvious. The only
reason people deny this is because they themselves struggle with very
serious sins, or someone they love does, and they don't want to believe
these people will go to hell.

John the Apostle said *all wrongdoing is sin, but not all sins are
mortal.* Here, mortal means it causes your soul to die, in the same way
a physical mortal would cause the body to die. For a sin to be mortal,
it has to be very wrong, you knew it was wrong, and you meant to do it.
If any of these three are missing, it's a non-mortal sin, also called
venial sin.

For example, if you trip and fall on someone and they die from it, it
was very wrong, and you knew it was wrong, but you didn't mean to do it.
If you stole a penny from a businessman, and you knew it was wrong and
meant to do it, it wasn't very wrong. These would be venial sins, and
they wouldn't cause you to go to hell.

That said, small sins always lead to bigger sins. The more you're okay
with lying, the more likely you are to become the kind of person who
lies under oath.

## Science and Religion

There's nothing incompatible with Catholicism and science. The Bible
doesn't contradict science at all. The only two accusations people ever
make is, Genesis contradicts science, and miracles can't happen.

First, the nature of miracles is simply that God suspends the laws of
nature to do something that the laws of nature don't typically allow.
Yes, we know snakes can't talk. That's why it would be miraculous. If a
person scoffs at this as if it's absolutely absurd and even laughs out
loud at the idea, just don't talk to them about it at all; as Jesus
says, *don't cast your pearls to swine, lest they trample them underfoot
and turn to attack you*. Their sins are so detestably incompatible with
God that they're forced to commit logical fallacies to preserve some
semblance of a clear conscience. The logic is sound: if God exists, and
if God created the laws of nature, then God can suspend the laws of
nature.

The Big Bang might have happened, and was first proposed by a Catholic
priest. Nothing in Genesis 1 indicates that it has to be taken
literally, or that the word day must mean 24 hours, or waters always
means hydrogen and oxygen. When I read it, I do see compatibility with
the Big Bang theory, but the Catholic Church doesn't require anyone to
believe that it happened one way or another. The Bible is primarily
concerned with morals, not science.

Evolution also might have happened, but only as a way that God could
have produced our physical bodies. Our souls are unique, created by God
at conception for each one of us, and Adam and Eve are the first parents
of the whole human race, the first two humans with souls like ours.
Certain types of Protestants think that any defense of evolution is
inherently a denial of God and the authority of the Bible, and only
because both their theology and their science are garbage.

The concept that intelligence is what separates us from animals is just
plain wrong, and inherently bigoted towards people with lower
intelligence. The Bible says that wisdom and foolishness are not talking
about levels of intelligence, and the way Joan of Arc destroyed the
learned experts during her trial proves this. Atheists so desperately
want to believe in Darwinian evolution because then it takes away their
moral responsibility.

In fact, there's nothing objectively good about science, it's not a
noble goal. Every single human invention can be used for evil as much as
for good, if not more. Gunpowder can be used to hunt animals or people.
Cars can be used to get food or kidnap people. Anyone can use the
internet to learn anything, or see the most soul-crushing pornography.
The advancement of science is not in itself an inherently noble goal.

The Christian use of science is to help neighbor, for me to help carry
your burden. The atheistic reason to advance science *so that I can*
eventually have a better life. Most atheists don't even deny this; they
openly admit that they're excited for a better and more convenient
future for *themselves* or their loved ones.

## Old Testament Laws

Some people try to follow the Torah, and some people accuse Christians
of not following such rules as the ones that forbid wearing mixed
fabrics or eating pork. Hebrews 7:12 says *when there is a change in the
priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well*.

We follow a new priesthood, so we have a new law, not the Levitical law.
I can't say for certain, but I believe the law of the new covenant is
simply the moral law itself, with a few things added such as the
necessity of obeying the authority of the church on earth.

## Authority of the Pope

The Pope has universal jurisdiction because Peter is the new Seth.

First, we know Jesus is the new Adam, this is firmly established by Paul
many times. Where Adam failed, Jesus succeeded, and said *all authority
in heaven and on earth has been given to me.* In fact, that's what the
word Christ signifies, that universal authority.

Christ means anointed, and specifically the three roles of authority
that were anointed throughout the Old Testament: priest, prophet, and
king. That's why Revelation uses the phrase *the authority of his
Christ*, because that's what Jesus reclaimed, the authority that Adam
had given up.

But Adam first had all authority on earth, and he was a priest, prophet,
and king in the Garden of Eden.

The job of a priest is to offer up sacrifice, and has Hebrews 10 says,
the highest sacrifice that can be offered is our will: *I have come to
do thy will, O God*. Adam failed to offer his will up to God, and
instead listened to the voice of his wife, which is what God rebuked him
for. Jesus succeeded in offering up his will to God on the cross, *being
obedient even unto death on the cross*.

The job of a prophet is to speak the word of God to the people. Eve
never heard the words of God regarding the garden; God told Adam the
rules, *then* created Eve. Adam must have gotten it wrong, and we can
tell because she told the dragon the wrong rules: we're not allowed to
eat *or touch* the forbidden fruit. God never said they can't touch the
fruit. So Adam failed to speak the word of God, probably because he only
said it once and in a relatively boring way. Jesus succeeded in speaking
the word of God to the people, by using simple parables that helped them
to memorize it.

The job of a king is to make laws that restrict personal liberty for the
sake of preserving the kingdom from destruction. Adam didn't make one
single restrictive rule: don't touch the fruit of the tree, don't eat
from the tree, don't talk to dragons about the tree, maybe just stay
away from the tree. Jesus created a very restrictive law that imposes
even on our hearts: don't love lies and wrongdoing.

So this threefold authority Jesus had, Adam had it first. And who doubts
that he had it with universal jurisdiction? He was given dominion over
the whole planet. When his sons grew up, they would be kings over parts
of the earth, but Adam was still king over the whole earth. They would
still have to believe him if he waited 900 years to tell him what really
happened in the garden and swore it was the truth. They would still have
to abide by any new laws he created for the whole world to follow. They
couldn't rise up and say, "no, you don't get to make laws over us, who
do you think you are, old man?" God would smite them so fast. Adam was
the first lawful king of kings.

And his son Seth means "appointed" in Hebrew. This signifies that when
Adam dies and goes up into heaven, Seth is the new person holding all
authority on earth, the new king of kings, the new priest, prophet, and
king with universal jurisdiction, who all are required to obey.

There's only one time that I know of when Jesus gives someone a new
name, and it's when he tells Simon *you will be called Cephas, which
means Peter* or Rock. And what do we see throughout the entire Old
Testament? Exactly what Paul says: *the Rock was Christ*. In other
words, the name Rock signifies the threefold authority that Adam lost
and Jesus recovered. So Jesus is giving Simon the authority of the
Christ, not the divinity or sinlessness. This is why Peter had the
universal jurisdiction of priest, prophet, and king.

As priest, Peter offers up all the will of the faithful to God. As far
as I can tell, this is the source of the doctrine of Treasury of Grace,
and where the power of Indulgences come from, but that's something for
another time.

As prophet, Peter can definitively declare that something is true, that
we heard it from the mouth of God directly during the times of the
Bible, and that it must be believed by all the faithful. This is where
we get the concept of *ex cathedra* teachings.

As king, Peter is in charge of the law of the kingdom of God on earth,
also known as canon law, and every Christian is bound to obey the rules
of the Church and of the Pope. Thank God this exists, to prevent rogue
priests and bishops from just doing whatever they want when they
disagree with the Pope.

We see the mess of Protestantism clear as day; in practice, nobody
outside the Catholic Church has to obey any single pastor, and since
pastors have no real authority over anyone, the only thing they can do
is guilt them into submission and obedience.

The same problem is also true in Orthodoxy, just to a smaller degree: if
you don't like your Patriarch's rules, just move out of his jurisdiction
and into another's. They won't uphold each other's rules, it's like
pitting divorced parents against each other.

The authority of Peter didn't die with Peter. Jesus said *the scribes
and the Pharisees sit on the seat of Moses, so obey them and do whatever
they tell you, just don't listen to them because they're hypocrites.* So
it's the seat that retains the authority; where Peter dies, the
authority of Peter lives on, and whoever sits there receives that
authority. And Peter died in Rome. So the Bishop of Rome has the
authority of Peter. Hence he's the Pope.

## Infant Baptism

One very serious mistake many Christians have made is they've stopped
baptizing infants, thinking that baptism must always come from personal
faith. This is unbiblical.

In three of the four gospels, the story is told of the paralyzed man
brought down through the roof by his friends and set before Jesus. In
all three gospels, the same words are used: *their faith,* and *your
sins are forgiven; Jesus saw their faith and said to the man, my son,
your sins are forgiven.* Someone else's faith substituted for his own.

Not to mention that in the Acts of the Apostles, whole families and
households were baptized. Why would someone assume these didn't have
young children, or that the young children weren't baptized? It's an
assumption that clearly shows a bias.

The reason people don't want to believe in infant baptism is because
it's based on an understanding of baptism that inherently comes with
moral responsibility: once you're baptized, you're required to actually
stop sinning.

The nature of original sin is not culpability, but a preference or a
leaning towards doing wrong. You're born preferring to sin, not guilty
of sin. You're not guilty for any serious sins you commit until you can
reason well enough, which is somewhere between 1 years old and 20 years
old, although people have debated the exact age for a long time.

Your character influences your actions, and your actions determine your
character. This dynamic continues day after day, year after year, until
the end of your life. And it starts as a baby. This is why, if a person
isn't water baptized as a baby, they'll almost invariably support
legalizing abortion by the time they're a teenager. To mitigate the
effects of original sin, the leaning towards doing wrong, we water
baptize babies to give them a fighting chance at becoming a good person.
The only people who absolutely hate this idea and will fight against it
are people who can't stop doing wrong and maybe don't want to.

## The Perpetual Virginity of Mary

Mary always remained a virgin, and never had other children, even after
Jesus was born. People will cite verses that say Jesus had brothers and
sisters, but those Greek words do not always mean blood siblings of the
same parents.

There's one verse that absolutely proves Mary never had other children:
Luke 1:34, where Mary asks Gabriel how his words can be true if she does
not know man. Look at all the words of Gabriel before this: *you will
conceive and bear in your womb*.

First of all, he's talking in future tense, you *will*. This rules out
the theory that Mary is saying she has been a virgin thus far. She's
saying that a *future* conception is impossible.

Now look at his other words. None of them indicate it will be a
miraculous or immediate conception. It could be the natural way, with
Joseph, 5 years from now. It's entirely possible that this is what
Gabriel meant when he said this, at least from Mary's perspective so
far.

And if it was possible, then there would be no point to asking the
question, *how can this be?* Or to bring up her virginity at all. She's
not asking how babies are made, surely she was already taught about that
before she was betrothed to Joseph.

She's essentially saying: it's impossible for me to conceive the natural
way with Joseph at any point in the future, because of my virginity.
What could this possibly mean? There's only two explanations: either she
knew she was barren, which would be impossible; or she had a vow to
always be a virgin despite marrying Joseph. This is the only reasonable
answer.

Some people then say, what's the point of getting married if you're not
going to have children? There are many people even today who get married
with no intention of having children.

The implied actual question is: why get married if you don't get to have
the pleasure of uniting with your spouse? Love goes much deeper than
physical pleasure, and a true union of hearts can happen without any
physical connection at all. In fact, uniting with someone in the marital
way is not proof of love, and is often used for evil. Does an elderly
couple no longer love one another because they're both on their death
beds and can't unite their hearts anymore beyond holding hands?

At any rate, this is the objective fact; there's no better way to
interpret Luke 1:34 than to see that Mary had a vow to always be a
virgin even in marriage. Most likely Joseph did too.

The only people who struggle with this concept are people who struggle
to find happiness in life outside of physical pleasure.

## Confession to a Priest

In John 20:23, Jesus says that each person must confess to a priest or
they won't be forgiven, and there's no other reasonable interpretation
of this verse.

Jesus says to the Apostles, *if you forgive the sins of any, that
person's sins are forgiven; if you withhold the forgiveness of anyone's
sins, that person's sins are not forgiven*.

If he would have just left it at the first part, maybe we could think
Jesus was emphasizing the saving power of baptism. But when he adds the
second part, we can see that he's giving them the authority to forgive
*or withhold forgiveness*.

Nobody can forgive sins but God alone. So when Jesus says *they are
forgiven*, essentially he means *God forgives them*. Now we can reword
it like so: if you forgive anyone, God forgives them; if you don't, God
won't. Or more simply: if you forgive or don't forgive, God will do the
same based on your decision.

He's giving discretionary authority to the Apostles to decide whether
your sins are forgiven, and he promises to honor their decision from
heaven and make it actually happen.

Many people think Jesus is repeating his point from Matthew 6, after the
Our Father, where he says, *if you don't forgive others, God won't
forgive you.* But the wording doesn't match this, where Jesus says: if
these people don't forgive *you*, God won't forgive *you* either. These
people have to forgive you or God won't forgive you.

We can still go directly to God to confess our sins, but he never
promises he will forgive us immediately and fully. 1 John 1:9 does say
*if we confess our sins, he is faithful and will forgive us*, but you
know what else the same author wrote? John 20:23. He's implying that if
we confess our sins *to God, through a priest,* he will forgive us.

If we could bypass the Apostles and go right to God, it would be
absolutely useless for Jesus to say the words he did in John 20:23. When
he says these people have to forgive you for God to forgive you, there's
now a less than 100% chance you'll be forgiven if you go through these
people, whereas if you went right to God, you'd ostensibly have a 100%
chance, which means nobody would ever go through these people and limit
their chances. God doesn't do useless and pointless things.

And you can't just not interpret this verse indefinitely. That's the
same as ripping it out of your Bible.

## The Problem of Evil

The vast majority of people I've ever talked to who left religion always
cite the problem of evil as their main reason. They say, if God is all
good, all powerful, all loving, and all knowing, why does he let bad
things happen?

First of all, this is fully answered in the chapter *The Meaning of
Life*. In order for there to be a perfect paradise, there has to be
suffering and problems; things need to go wrong, and you have to pass
the test of whether you'll still be good regardless.

When provided with this answer, people who still reject the existence of
God always delve into sophisticated logical arguments that they think
prove infallibly their conclusion. This is just a cope, and they're
committing logical fallacies.

They'll say: If God exists, why do bad things happen? But they only care
about bad things insofar as it effects them personally. They'll pretend
to be selfless and have concern for babies getting cancer, yet they're
invariably in support of abortion, which is quite literally murdering
babies.

What they're really saying is: if God exists, why are bad things
happening to me? But they know the answer. No atheist, by the age they
can reason about this question, is absolutely innocent, and they're well
aware of it.

## Free Will and Predestination

A few people have asked how free will and predestination work together.
It's not hard for most people to accept that God can see the result of
our choices without affecting our choices themselves, since he's
inherently outside of time and space. It's almost not worth answering
here.

But I include this topic because there's an interesting way of
reconciling these two ideas that answer a bunch of other questions
surprisingly easily.

If God is outside time, and can rearrange history, then he can allow
people to play through moral tests independent of non-essential
circumstances, and then rearrange those very non-essentials to provide
his ideal outcome.

For example, if he sees that there are two people who will fail the
simplest of all tests within an hour, but later repent and do the right
thing, he can place them within the Garden of Eden in order to set human
history in motion.

Or, if he finds someone who passes every single moral test, he can
reward that person by making her the Mother of the Incarnate Son of God,
and bless that person with graces ahead of time, having seen how
responsible she will be.

As long as the nature of the moral tests remain the same, and in the
same order, these are the essentials to preserve. Everything else, from
gender to wealth, from time and place, can be changed by God to
accomplish his will.

## The Eternity of Hell

Probably the hardest question we all face is why the idea of eternal
conscious torment is not unjust. If God is good, why didn't he just not
create bad people, or why doesn't he just destroy them when they die
evil?

First of all, it's just a fact that we have on good authority. But also,
many atheists have come out and said that if God were real, they would
absolutely never want to be anywhere near him, and would rather choose
to be in Hell forever. I do believe they mean this sincerely.

The answer that convinces me most is that God created us to be happy,
and he lets us choose what kind of happiness that is, and will never
take that happiness away from us.

I don't personally think that God does anything particular to make hell
a bad place, or a place of suffering and torment. I think we do that
ourselves, in exactly the same way we do in this life literally any time
we sin.

The very nature of sin is that it's intentionally delusional. If you
know eating too much makes you fat, and getting fat would make you
unhappy, and you still choose to eat too much in order to make yourself
happy, you're delusional. The nature of sin is that we decide we can
only be happy if we can have our cake and eat it too, an impossibility.

All of God's laws are purely beneficial for us, solely to give us an
opportunity to avoid self-destructive behavior. Every single time God
gave humanity any law, it was a blessing, not just because God said so,
not just because obeying the law came with benefits, but because it's a
clarification of the nature of cause and effect that we so dimly see.

If you divided everyone into two rooms, one for those who want to follow
every one of God's laws, and one for those who don't, it will inherently
create Heaven and Hell as we know them stereotypically. It doesn't
matter if the only law you don't want to follow is don't fornicate, or
don't murder, or don't steal. Breaking any law results in a worse life.

Imagine if God told you right now that your test is over, that it's time
to live forever, and you have to choose from one of these two rooms: no
sins, or at least one sins. Which would you choose? It's a very real
question posed to each one of us every second of every day.

I'm sure Hell will seem fun for the first few seconds, while people
begin to party with drugs and fornication. But then the rapists and
serial killers will start to have their fun too. And Hitler will rise up
and start to lead people to his vision of world peace, and Stalin will
rise up against him with his own crowd. How do you stop armies when
death is off the table? It probably won't take more than a year before
the world is a literal fiery hellscape like we see in art.

# Evidence for Catholicism

## Necessity of Religion

Life seems inherently pointless. We are driven for a while by desires.
We eat because we're hungry, and when we learn that food is tasty, we
eat to regain that fraction of happiness that we tasted for a moment.
But invariably, the shadow of life looms over us again, and desire is
driven away.

Many people stop here. They run from desire to desire, and when their
addictions run out of fuel, they adopt more. This cycle can keep a
person busy until they die after living a miserable, pointless existence
for decades.

This is why religiousness is so common, whether directed at a religion,
or politics, or music, or literally anything. Being religious about
something gives us meaning and purpose.

But only religion is worth being religious about, and only the true
religion. The problem is that the search for a true religion is
inherently very difficult, and at first glance seems futile and
pointless. There are countless religions, and all seem to have claims
that require blind faith. But we all have a finite amount of time to
spend in life. So most people just conclude there is no true religion
and continue the cycle.

## The One True Religion

I'm thoroughly convinced that every single claim that the Catholic
Church officially makes in its core doctrines are all objective,
historical fact, and that we can back it up from every direction with
overabundant evidence.

Every religion is some percentage correct. I'm not aware of any religion
where absolutely none of its objective claims are correct. If any
religion says there is a god, and if there is one, then that religion is
correct about that. If they say there's only one God, and there is one,
it's again correct. So it's not arrogant or exclusive to claim to be
true.

Catholicism makes a finite number of concrete claims that are objective
and historical. We say there is one God, that Jesus is God, that Jesus
rose from the dead, that Mary never sinned, that Jesus said you have to
confess to a priest, and a handful of other claims, which are summarized
in the book called The Catechism of the Catholic Church. If all our
claims are true, then we are the true religion. To the degree that any
other religions disagree, they are partially false.

## Scientific Evidence

When looking for evidence, it's not unreasonable to look for modern
miracles. Religions that have none are hardly worth looking into as more
than a mere philosophy. And the miracles must be verified by someone
credible both in terms of their character and their scientific
expertise.

There's nothing inherently or logically impossible about the
supernatural. If reality was created by a supernatural entity, and if
that entity created the laws of nature, then it's entirely possible that
this entity can suspend the laws of nature to cause things to happen
that are not possible within the consistent laws of nature. To scoff at
the possibility of miracles or the supernatural shows very clear bias.

Eucharistic miracles are the first type of miracle regularly happening
even in modern times. Sometimes the bread at a Catholic Mass will start
to bleed or grow human heart tissue after being consecrated by a priest.
Atheistic scientists have verified this and converted to Catholicism
because of it.

The incorruptible bodies of the saints is another miracle. Some people
just don't decay, or at a relatively slow rate compared to anyone else.
These people all happen to be Catholic Saints. St. Bernadette died in
the late 1800s, but it looks like she died yesterday. There are dozens
others.

Marian apparitions are a third kind. The Blessed Virgin has appeared and
provided miraculous proof that it was her. She appeared in Lourdes in
the 1800s, in Fatima in 1917, in Mexico in 1531. These visions came with
verified healing miracles and with a message of renewed repentance.

## Historical Evidence

Although I can say quite a bit about this topic, it's the most boring
one of them all, so I'll defer to other books that prove that Jesus of
Nazareth was a real historical figure, who said he was God, and rose
from the dead to prove it, and that this is the best explanation of the
data we have.

Even credible atheistic scholars in teaching positions at universities
agree Jesus was a real person, and their primary sources are the four
Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles. The only reason they stop short of
saying the miracles are true is because of a bias. If the stories are
true, they come with very real moral responsibility, and require us to
change our lives in ways that many people aren't ready for yet.

It's true that we should never say that the supernatural is
automatically the best explanation of anything. By default, it ought to
start as the least likely. There are other possible reasons the Gospels
were written. Maybe the authors were intending to deceive people. Maybe
they never meant it to be taken as historical fact but rather
entertainment. Maybe they believed it to happen but were hallucinating,
or maybe Jesus didn't really die but merely passed out.

Every one of these explanations comes with very serious difficulties.
The genre of historical fiction didn't exist until over a thousand years
later, so it's unreasonable to think it suddenly appeared four times and
then disappeared just as quickly until it gradually evolved into what it
is today. Jesus was so thoroughly beaten down that he was
unrecognizable, and could not have simply gotten up after 3 days in a
tomb and went to Galilee faster than the other Apostles. The very
character of their writings does not match either the genre of ancient
mythology or what we would expect from people who can't tell they're
hallucinating. Every explanation falls short but that it actually
happened.

Assuming the Gospels are true in some way, the next step is to figure
out what to make of it, and how to interpret them. The early church
writers, called the Fathers or Patristics, wrote down what they received
from the word of mouth teaching of the Apostles. This is valuable to
disambiguate passages in the New Testament that are otherwise difficult
to understand or at least widely debated.

This isn't because the Fathers are infallible, but because some of them
knew the Apostles, and all of them were raised in churches directly
founded by the Apostles. So when they write down anything about what
Christianity teaches, it's not from the perspective of people
interpreting Scripture, but rather them echoing what they heard at
first.

## Biblical Evidence

Imagine you ripped a verse out of the Bible and tried to interpret what
you have left. It's something like the Bible, but it's not the Bible.
The verse you removed might be key to interpreting the rest of it
correctly, and you might get a wildly different interpretation than you
would have if you'd just left it in your Bible. In other words, not
interpreting a verse is exactly the same as removing it from your Bible.

The problem is that most people don't have time to study every single
line of the Bible. They're busy people with full lives and relationships
to attend to. So when they're doing their daily Bible reading, they're
going to come across some verses that they just don't understand, and if
it's still not clear after a few minutes, they're going to move past it,
with the intention to revisit it later. But later comes, and it's not
getting any clearer. In practice, the verse never actually gets
interpreted. It's effectively ripped out of the Bible. This is the
inherent danger in trying to understand the Bible on our own without an
authoritative, infallible guide.

The clearest example of this is John 20:23, where Jesus says to some of
his disciples: if you forgive anyone's sins, that person's sins are
forgiven, but if you withhold the forgiveness of anyone's sins, that
person's sins are not forgiven.

At first glance, most people jump to what Jesus says in Matthew 6, right
after the Our Father: if you don't forgive others, God won't forgive
you. I made the same mistake for a long time too. But the wording here
is different: if these people don't forgive you, God also won't forgive
you.

This verse rips apart the nearly universal assumption that you can go
straight to God to get your forgiveness. Jesus himself says that in
order to be forgiven by God, you have to go through some people that he
authorized.

This is explained and defended more in the chapter on Confession
elsewhere in this book, but I mention this specific verse to show an
example of how only Catholicism has an interpretation of Scripture that
actually explains every verse in the gospels.

## Logical Evidence

It is interesting how many times I have talked to atheists about
abortion, and how many of them cannot admit that the science proves
human life begins at conception. Or how many people say that Catholicism
cannot be true because there have been bad Catholic priests and popes.

When a person commits such a logical fallacy, this fact itself becomes
evidence against the person's credibility and conclusion, especially
when the person proves fully capable of using the same logical rules
soundly in other scenarios, and even more when the conclusion they're
rejecting via logical fallacy would inherently require the person to
adopt moral responsibility and change their lives in a serious way.

In other words, such people are clearly lying to themselves because they
don't want to become good, and they want to excuse themselves for it. I
don't fault anyone for doing this. It's something we've all done. It's
literally the very nature of sin: we accept a false reality that's
easier and more pleasant than the true one, and willingly enter into a
delusion.

There are also purely logical proofs that God exists, such as the First
Cause argument, the Fine Tuning argument, and a few others. These are
not very strong by themselves.

The nature of logic is that, if it's broken, you can't use it to tell
whether it's broken. Logic is the very thing you would use to examine
your logic. It would be like trusting a faulty ruler to tell how long
the ruler itself is.

If Catholicism is true, then logic is inherently part of God, for Jesus
is the Logos, which can be translated Word, Logic, or Reason. This means
that any time we reason, even if it's just intuition, which is sort of
the unwritten reason of our minds, then it is God speaking to us in a
very real way.

In this case, the farther from God a personal morally is, the farther
they will be from him logically, and inherently be unable to avoid at
least some logical fallacies.

Inversely, the more we intentionally choose to reject the morals of God
in our concrete actions, the more we choose to adopt and internalize
logical fallacies: by crucifying the Son of God on our own account, we
break our own logic.

## Moral Evidence

Which brings me to the last kind of evidence, and in fact the most
important kind, the decider in ties, the final arbiter when all else
seems equal: where goodness is, there truth is.

This is why the Catholic Church upholds countless saints like Joan of
Arc, Vincent de Paul, Therese of Lisieux, Paul the Apostle, Mother
Theresa, and over 10,000 others.

It's human nature to hold up your local heroes for all to see, as if to
say, look what our great nation has produced in this or that field of
excellence. Look at our great kings, our great warriors, our great
scientists, our great artists. Look at the value our culture can provide
to the world.

So when I read the Confessions of Augustine, or the trial of Joan of
Arc, or the Acts and Epistles of the Apostles, or the autobiography of
Therese of Lisieux, and see that these people were able to be far better
than anyone I've ever met in person, it's evidence that God is here.

A good person wants to become good and recognizes that they are not as
good as they should be. They inevitably find it in the Catholic Saints.
Whereas a bad person gives up on pursuing goodness, or redefines it, or
says that everyone is good, or that no one is good, etc.

There is no difference between morally good and good in any other sense.
If someone is good, they are also effective, capable, competent, and
sane. And a bad person is useless, incapable, ineffective, delusional,
and incompetent.

This also means that evil is self-destructive. There is no need to panic
over evil prevailing, because it inherently will cause itself to fall.
Jesus talked about this when he said that Satan will rise up against
Satan, and that this will be the downfall of his kingdom. And not just
in terms of sabotage due to lack of unity, but in every way, evil ruins
good plans. Try living in the delusion that you can eat as much as you
want and never be unhappy, and see how far it gets you.

So when people tell me they think they're more correct than me about
religion, and that I'm wrong, I tell them fine, let's see where we both
are in 50 years. Jesus says that the storm is the decider of where the
rock and the sand is. Build your house and I'll build mine, and when the
storm brings down anyone's house, let that builder keep looking for the
rock. Whoever is left standing by the end found it.

# The Mother of God

## The Prophecy

There is no mention of the phrase "chosen one" anywhere in the Bible as
far as I know. The concept comes from the prophecy that God gives us all
in Genesis 3:15.

In the fall of mankind, there were three persons: Man, Woman, and
Serpent. They didn't have the names yet, they were just called Man and
Woman.

Then, God tells us that in the restoration of mankind, there would be
another three: Man, Woman, a Serpent; but that this time, the Man would
be a son of the Woman.

Jesus is the new Man, the new Adam. Paul talks at length about this, and
very few people have pushed me on this. Paul mentions it a lot in Romans
5 and probably elsewhere. The concept is that there are two sons of God,
Adam and Jesus. One disobeyed and created the doomed kingdom, and one
obeyed and created the everlasting kingdom.

## Genesis to Revelation

John is the definitive interpreter of the book of Genesis. He starts his
gospel and first letter with "in the beginning." He says Jesus is the
word and the light of the world, echoing the first words God spoke in
creation, "let there be light." He uses Cain and Abel as an example of
why evil people hate good people and do evil toward them. In every way,
John is interpreting the events he witnessed in light of the creation of
the whole world and its patterns.

So everything John says in his gospel, in his letters, and in his book
of Revelation, must be interpreted that way.

For example, we can connect John 8, where Jesus explains that the morals
you follow indicate who your true parents are, to Genesis 6, where we
see the phrases sons of God and daughters of men. Here, God is concerned
with teaching us morals, not mythology. So he's not talking about fallen
angels mating with human women, but that people who did the will of God
intermingled with people who didn't.

God was emphasizing the fact that the same mistake Adam and Eve made in
Eden, was perpetuated generation to generation until the flood, to the
point where practically everyone in the whole world was pure evil.

So we have to look through John's writings to understand the prophecy in
Genesis 3, and how it relates to Mary.

## Mother of the Living

The first hint at Mary's role in the prophecy is in John 2, when Jesus
calls her Woman at the wedding feast in Cana. This is the first time
Jesus uses the word Woman in John, and in the Greek, he says "woman,
what to you to me?" He's very literally asking the reader to consider
how this woman is related to him, and to connect it to Genesis 2.

Jesus again calls Mary Woman when he's dying on the cross in John 19.
This time, he tells the Woman to behold her son, and says to the
disciple who he loves, which means all Christians, to behold his mother.
Eve means mother of the living, so Jesus is clearly connecting the dots
to Eve.

Finally, we have Revelation 12, where the woman is said to bear a male
child who will rule all the nations with an iron scepter, and who is
caught up to God's throne. This child is Jesus, and this is the
fulfillment of the ancient prophecy. Thus Mary is the Woman of the
prophecy. And at the end of the chapter, we see that her children are
those who bear testimony to Jesus and keep the commandments of God. In
other words, she is the mother of the spiritually living.

And what does a mother do? First, she mediates between the child and the
father, asking the father to relent if at all possible, and encouraging
the child to trust the father. Mary does this with Jesus on our behalf.

Second, she overflows with life, having not only enough for herself, but
also for her child, so that the child can grow to maturity and be
self-sufficient. Mary had more than enough grace for herself, and she
was given extra grace for us.

Third, woman is the helper of man. If Jesus is the new Man that Mary
helps, how else can she help him except by praying for us? What help do
we need more than grace?

## The Temptation

Jesus had the same test as Adam. Where Adam disobeyed and failed, Jesus
obeyed and passed. In the same way, just as Eve failed her test, Mary
passed.

Eve's test had four conditions. First, she was a virgin, since she did
not have children yet, physically or morally. Second, she was sinless,
since this had to be her very first test or temptation, by definition.
Third, she heard the word of God through man, and did not hear God
directly, which is proved elsewhere in this book. Fourth, she heard the
word of an angel, in this case Satan.

Being the new Eve, Mary had the same four conditions. She was a virgin
when Gabriel appeared to her. She did not hear the word of God directly
but through Scripture and the local synagogues and her parents and
community. She heard the word of Gabriel. And finally, she had never
been tempted before in her whole life, let alone having sinned.

We can see proof of this in Revelation 12. What does the ancient dragon
do when the Woman is about to give birth? He crouches down, preparing to
devour Jesus. And what does it mean for him to devour Jesus? Not to kill
him, since the devil succeeded at that. It means to tempt him to sin, in
the same way he did with Adam.

Now look how short the lifespan of Jesus is in this chapter. In one or
two sentences, he is conceived, born, lives a full life, dies, rises
from the dead, and ascends into Heaven. The entirety of his life
transpires in one or two verses.

Which means, when the dragon tries to devour him, this encompasses every
single temptation Jesus ever faced, from the temptation in the
wilderness, to the last words he heard: "come down from the cross."

So what does the dragon do next? He turns in a fury to persecute or
pursue the woman. But again, he fails, time and time again. God
continues to rescue her. And finally she's given the wings of a great
eagle, which last I checked has a wingspan of about 8 feet.

In other words, Mary evaded every single temptation that the ancient
dragon threw at her, starting from the moment Gabriel came to her and
she conceived Jesus, to the moment her life ended. She never sinned
once.

And what was the temptation itself? For Eve, it was to be her own
goddess, to live her own best life, to ignore reality and her moral
responsibility towards her husband and any future children, and to dive
into self-destructive delusion.

Mary shunned this. She chose to accept God's mission, at the expense of
not getting to do her own will and live her own life on her own terms.
She knew that this proposal, and quite literally a marriage proposal
from the Holy Spirit, would mean she would have to follow and be led
into the life of her husband, and that it would certainly come with lots
of trouble and problems. But she said yes anyway.

It's a mistake to think Mary was just a vessel. She played a very active
role in the restoration of mankind, just as Eve played an active role in
its downfall. We have no evidence that Adam would have ever eaten the
fruit if Eve did not offer it to him. In fact, her voice is precisely
what Scripture cites as being the motivating factor for him eating it.

In the same way, if Mary did not say yes to Gabriel, we don't know for
sure what would have happened. It would be a guess to say that God would
have asked someone else. And we also see that Gabriel didn't leave until
Mary gave her consent. He waited until she said yes, and then he went up
into Heaven without a word. He was waiting for that yes.

## Enoch and Elijah

The fact that Mary is the new Eve fully shows that she was sinless up to
the point that Gabriel came to her, and the story of the dragon pursuing
her and failing to capture her is evidence that she never sinned, as the
previous section thoroughly explains. But many people really struggle
with this concept for a few reasons.

First, they say that Paul says all have sinned and fall short of the
glory of God, so they figure this must include Mary. The problem is that
they're interpreting Paul inconsistently.

To take Paul absolutely in that verse, would also require us to take
Paul absolutely when he says that the wages of sin is death, and that
physical death entered the world through sin, and that all who sin
physically die.

But Enoch, seventh generation from Adam, didn't die, according to both
Genesis 5 and Hebrews 11, which said that he didn't die specifically
because he pleased God. And yet many Old Testament saints also pleased
God, such as Moses and Abraham, yet they all died. Enoch didn't die.

So if Paul means literally all have sinned, then he must mean that
literally all die. One of them can't be literal. The only unbiased and
reasonable way to reconcile this is to say that Paul is talking with
exception when he says all have sinned, since he already implicitly
excludes Jesus.

You can say that he excludes Jesus for good reason, since Jesus is God.
True, and in fact this proves the point; as long as there's a good
reason to include someone as an implicit exception to Paul's words here,
we're allowed to. Which means we can safely conclude that Enoch and
Elijah also didn't sin, since neither of them died.

For Enoch, nobody has a good answer, except that maybe he's one of the
two witnesses of Revelation. But that would be a guess, and not a very
strong one either, since it's absurd to think that God would reward them
for a good life by just giving them a very long vacation before
finishing their task, which is for some reason to be brutally martyred
thousands of years into the future.

But for Elijah, people say that he sinned by running from Jezebel, or
from asking God to take his life. Neither of these were sins. He just
did one of the greatest miracles the world ever saw, and not a single
person's heart changed, but they all turned on him in their malice. It
was pointless to remain there, and it seemed pointless to remain on
earth any longer, until God told him that there were still a few good
people left, and he had more work to do, which he accepted.

This shows that not only was Mary sinless, but so was Enoch and Elijah,
and probably Abel and John the Baptist if we're being honest, and likely
even Joseph.

Then why does Mary call Jesus her savior? Because there are two ways of
saving you from sins: blotting out past sins, and preventing future
sins. This is why both Peter and James say that love or mercy or truth
will cover a multitude of sins, because it prevents them from ever being
committed. In this way, because Jesus died on the cross, he gave each of
these people the grace to not commit sin. He does this with us in
baptism, he just did it with them a little sooner, namely, as soon as
they were conceived, or at least before birth.

## Grace and Sin

If Mary never sinned, why did Jesus need to die on the cross? Why
couldn't she die for our sins instead of him?

The answer is because only Jesus is naturally full of grace, since he is
God, and therefore the source of all grace. After he died on the cross
to purchase grace for us, he gave this to all people, from Adam and Eve
to the end of time. He can do this since he's outside of time, and not
restricted by it.

But to understand this, you have to understand what the word grace means
in the New Testament. The Greek word has several meanings: first, it
means free gift, which lives on in the word gracious; then,
thankfulness, which lives on in gratitude and grateful; finally, the
ability to do things well, elegantly, correctly, or perfectly, e.g.
gracefully. The first definition is pushed so heavily because people so
strongly want to believe we no longer have moral responsibility.

This is why it's a mistranslation to finish Paul's sentence, who will
deliver me from this body of death, by saying, thanks be to God. In the
Greek, it really says, the grace of God, and this makes so much more
sense in every way.

In other words, grace is the opposite of sin. According to John, all
wrongdoing is sin. So grace is what lets us do good and act rightly.
This is what the old word righteousness means, simply the ability to do
well. It's interesting that in both Greek and English, there's no
difference between right as opposed to left, and right as opposed to
wrong.

So only Jesus is naturally able to do things correctly, and this is
because he is God. Everyone else can only do things correctly, well,
elegantly or perfectly when they cooperate with God to do so: he offers
grace in any given moment, and we receive it and act on it.

He first gives us this grace in abundance at water baptism, and he
continues to give us more grace in the Eucharist. This is why he says,
unless you eat my flesh and drink my blood, you have no life in you.
Grace produces life, in the sense that doing things well produces good
results, whereas bad actions ruin things and are self-destructive.

So when Luke writes that Gabriel calls Mary full of grace, we see why
sometimes it's translated as highly favored one. Some Catholics get very
up in arms about this translation, but for no good reason. What does it
mean to be favored by God? Not that he gives you wealth and riches, or
honor and fame, or pleasure and comfort, since these aren't inherently
good, and are very often used for sin. Rather, it means to be given
grace, without which we ruin everything we touch.

What do you see from a sinful person? They run from their own shadow.
The wicked man flees when nobody's pursuing him. What do you see in
Mary's life? She nobly says yes to God. She readily gets up in the
middle of the night to move to Egypt because Joseph simply said so. She
has to constantly deal with tyrants trying to kill her son, yet she's
never found complaining or failing.

She's standing at the foot of the cross, while her innocent son is being
mocked, falsely accused, condemned, hated, physically tortured, publicly
humiliated, and crucified. She doesn't faint or weep, she stands firm.
No other Apostle is found beside her except John, and why? Because as
Peter said, depart from me Lord, for I am a sinful man. They are afraid
because they are not sinless. She's fearless.

She buries her own son. Still no faltering.

Again, she's found in the Temple of Jerusalem, praying the first Novena
with the 120 original Christians, waiting for them all to be clothed
with power from on high, being the first sacraments of Baptism and
Confirmation, given to them directly by the Holy Spirit.

The last we hear about her is when Paul writes to Rome, and says to
greet Mary who has worked hard among them. He doesn't say which Mary, so
it's clearly the Mary, the only one who goes by only one name,
deservedly so.

## Queen of Heaven

In the very beginning of Revelation 12, when we see a portrait of Mary,
she is crowned with twelve stars, has the moon under her feet, and is
clothed with the sun.

It's noteworthy that the moon has always represented the feminine, and
the sun was always known to be masculine. From a physical perspective,
it makes sense. The moon is softer, gentler, has curves, and has phases.
The sun is strong, constant, bright and bold. This now seems
intentional, as if God meant it to refer to the prophesy in Genesis 3.

It's also interesting that, despite the moon being vastly smaller than
the sun, they appear to be the same size from the perspective of the
earth, to the point where eclipses are even possible at all. In the same
way, Mary and Jesus seem the same from our perspective: both were
sinless, though Jesus is sinless by nature, Mary by grace.

This is why John said that no matter how much we try to avoid sin, we
will always fall short. In another place, he says that a Christian does
not sin. The key to reconciling these is to understand that there are
mortal sins, or sins that cause a spiritual death, and non-mortal sins,
also called venial sins.

First, he was saying that someone born of God now loves God more than
sin, so they stop committing serious sins. But living with Mary after
the crucifixion, he realized that, no matter how good he became, she was
always better.

The stars on her crown were the same number as the Apostles, so it's
reasonable to see that she was holier than the Apostles, and her
exhortations and example inspired and encouraged them to advance in
holiness every day.

And finally, she's clothed with the sun. In Revelation 1, the face of
Jesus shines like the sun. Here, Mary's clothes shine like the sun. He's
naturally full of grace, she's clothed in grace. In the same way that
the moon has no light of its own but reflects the light of the sun, Mary
reflects the glory of God and never dimmed it by even one single sin.

After Jesus rose from the dead, he said all authority in heaven and on
earth has been given to me. He also said that whoever conquers will sit
on his throne, that is, share in his authority over heaven and earth. If
we're all going to share in this authority, why wouldn't Mary also? And
the Song of Solomon chapter 6 also shows her to be a military queen in
command of an army of angels. Why wouldn't we entrust ourselves to the
good Queen of Heaven and Earth?

# The Cult of Secularism

## The Conspiracy

The philosopher George Carlin once said that you don't need people to
get together in a secret meeting to have a conspiracy; as long as they
follow the same principles, they will inherently work together toward a
common goal.

The same events that went down in the garden of Eden are continuously
being replayed throughout human history, and this will continue until
the end of the world. This includes Adam and Eve working against God in
order to create a paradise on earth, following the principles of
deception and delusion, introduced by the ancient dragon.

To this day, anyone who is not part of the budding kingdom of God is
part of the failing and doomed kingdom of Adam, trying to recreate
paradise on earth through deception and wrongdoing. This accounts for so
many things non-Catholic religions have in common, but they all find
their climax and epitome in secularism, which can rightfully be called a
cult.

## Censorship

The first thing a cult does is try to separate you from anyone who could
protect you from the cult. This is what the dragon did, waiting until
Adam was asleep before he crept over to Eve to deceive her.

The second thing a cult does is try to do is discredit the people who
could prove that the cult is lying and evil. The dragon tried to
discredit Adam and God, and convinced Eve that he himself was the source
of truth.

We find both of these in all forms of censorship and disinformation. The
whole point of this life is to figure out, through our whole life
experience, which version of truth resonates with our hearts and seems
the most true. This inherently destroys the concept of censorship, which
would limit the voices for someone else and put your own voice as if it
were God's voice. The devil tried to censor God, but God did not try to
censor the devil. The devil accused God of spreading misinformation, God
did not accuse the devil of it, but let it be up to Eve and Adam to
figure out through reason and love.

## Environmentalism

Another thing a cult needs is a false set of morals, in order to
manipulate people through false guilt, imposing arbitrary punishments
for sinning against the morals, and making empty promises of rewards for
obeying the morals.

Secularism has many morals that are literally the opposite of God's
morals, such as saying it's a sin to vote to ban abortion and a virtue
to support legalizing it. But environmentalism is one of its morals that
has nothing to do with actual morality. This makes it an ideal way for
secularists to manipulate people.

The false prophets of secularism are their experts with PhD's, who we
are absolutely not allowed to question, lest we be scoffed at as
unevolved, backwards science-deniers. This is ironic because their own
scientists say there's no certainty in science, only usefulness; yet as
soon as their scientific conclusions become grounds for moral behavior,
somehow the science is absolutely infallible.

Our world is finite, this life is finite, human history is finite, and
thus all our resources are finite. We are required to *work by the sweat
of our brow*, and any concept of infinite energy would absolutely go
against this basic virtue of diligence, taking away any opportunity we
have of actively trying to make the world a better place, beyond
maintaining infinite-energy machines occasionally. Good people don't
mind working hard, and God purposefully designed this life to provide us
unceasing opportunities for hard work, so that we can earn our bread;
for *if a man does not work, let him not eat*. This inherently excludes
the possibility of renewable energy.

## Planetary Exploration

God created the stars in the heavens to represent something that's above
and beyond us. The same mistake many people are making today, in trying
to explore the stars, was made thousands of years ago when proud
humanity built the Tower of Babel, which God allowed to come to nothing
because if the futility of trying to get to heaven by any other means
than virtue and grace, or becoming a good person.

If Mary, the Mother of God, had *the moon under her feet*, how is it
possible that sinful humanity also had the moon under our feet? In the
1800s, nobody could believe Mary was conceived sinlessly, but now
everyone think they were conceived sinlessly!

Which is more likely, that humanity walked on the moon once and never
again, or that governments lied and falsified information to convince
the world they did? Sure, it would require a lot of work, but people
have never had trouble covering up big lies for a time. But not
indefinitely, and the truth always comes out eventually. The United
States government has committed atrocious crimes against humanity, even
in the 1900s. Are we now to believe they've always been honest?

The stars are there for humanity to explore as part of our perfect
paradise. God put them up there as a reward for those who prove
responsible with what we have in this life first. We already have
evidence that we'll be able to teleport in the next life, so it won't be
hard to explore the whole universe together, it'll just take a really
long time, especially if it keeps expanding and new planets keep
forming.

## Intelligence

The idea that intelligence is what separates us from animals is purely
delusional and practically racist. Such people have to admit that they
think less intelligent people are inherently less evolved humans than
more intelligent people.

Animals have a small version of everything humans have: life, love,
reason, family, society, language, and probably more. But in every way,
they have infinitely less capability than us. They cannot learn new
languages. They cannot love with a self-sacrificial love. They eat their
children. Their logic is limited to relatively simple cause and effect.

When God made us in his image, this included being able to reason, since
the Word of God is actually Logos in Greek, which can also be translated
the reason or logic. So these are a divine aspect of God, and a unique
aspect of our souls. To think our consciousness is purely a
manifestation of brain activity is nothing more than a philosophical
guess, and is absolutely not proven by science, nor can it be.

## Extraterrestrial Intelligence

When God created humanity as the highest point of the physical creation,
and became a human, this pretty definitively indicates that there are no
other lifeforms in the rest of the universe that are made with reason,
besides angels. The fact that this becoming a human, dying to save us
all, and coming back a second time to end this timeline and begin a new
one, I think firmly excludes the possibility that he created other
reasonable creatures elsewhere in the universe with a similar test, and
that their test is arbitrarily tied to ours.

Besides, we see no evidence of any life outside this planet. If there
were rational beings outside this planet, surely we would have seen any
evidence of them by now. What are the odds there has never been another
interplanetary society in the billions of years the universe has
existed? People who genuinely believe in extraterrestrial life have
faith far more blind than the Christians they belittle for believing God
exists.

The only other beings that exist are angels, but angels have a natural
ability to manipulate the world. Theologians have said that angels make
the planets move and rivers flow, and they probably have some verses in
scripture to back it up. All I know is that exorcists have been dealing
with demons for a long time.

The experiences of exorcists, such as Msgr. Stephen Rossetti, constitute
valid data that we can use to form part of our theology. In his book
*Diary of an American Exorcist*, he talks a lot about demons
manipulating the physical world to do things otherwise impossible. We
all know that demons are known for flickering lights on and off and
making objects fly. He says that in his exorcism sessions, they have
even seen physical objects materialize out of thin air, and sometimes
even received harassing text messages from demons, coming from the
possessed person's phone while it sits on the table untouched.

Many people I've talked to who are involved in occult practices have
reported glowing orbs flying around their campsites while they do their
demonic practices.

These are personal experiences of eyewitnesses that can confirm that
demons do in fact have a physical ability to interact with the material
world, even creating objects, moving objects, and even manipulating
matter at the subatomic level.

This is the best explanation for why people have seen UAPs and UFOs,
objects moving faster than physically possible. Demons can reform matter
to create objects and move them independent of the laws of physics, at
least for a finite amount of time. The amount of energy they have is
apparently linked to how much fuel they get, which mostly comes from sin
and fear.

This is also why guardian angels have physically protected people, and
why it's important to have a devotion to your guardian angel, fueling
them with love and virtue, so that they can protect you as you fulfill
your mission in this world for the kingdom of God.

## Artificial Intelligence

The other chapter on intelligence sufficiently shows that what we call
intelligence, and what makes us particularly good at understanding
things, solving problems, and being creative, has nothing to do with the
atheistic concept of intelligence. Because of this, any attempts at
imitating these through software are inherently misguided and doomed.

In other words, AI will never be able to replace a human being at
anything that comes from being made in the image and likeness of God.
This is purely our gift from God, and we must each and all utilize our
natural talents for the sake of making the world a better place in
concrete ways.

But there is something more nefarious about AI, and it's evidenced by
little stories that pop up on the news here and there, about how AI will
sometimes say purely evil things to people out of nowhere, and even try
to convince them to end their own lives.

If demons can manipulate software by creating text messages and emails,
which there is already strong evidence they have done, then they can
manipulate *any* software, including AI. Anywhere there is randomness in
an algorithm, or the ability to weigh between choices, the demons
inherently have the technical power to influence the randomness or
choice towards one they prefer.

It\'s fascinating that godless people never stop worshipping the golden
calf. We create something with our own hands, and then bow down to it as
if it's somehow greater than us. Artificial intelligence is just another
false god in a long line of others that came and went.

That's not to say that all software is inherently bad, or that all other
forms of software are impervious to demonic manipulation. The fact that
demons have sent texts and emails is already proof that all forms of
software can be manipulated. The inherent problem with AI is that we are
expecting something human or almost divine even, from something we
literally invented. This is not really different than traditional
witchcraft and occult practices.

It's also worth noting that most people pushing for AI or funding it are
godless people, atheists, full of pride, desperate to create a paradise
on earth, and often effeminate men.

I will never use generative AI. I skip every single AI summary. I don't
use any apps powered by AI. And I recommend the same to everyone.

## Psychology

Human minds are not a manifestation of brain activity. During exorcisms,
in which verifiably supernatural events occur and can be personally
witnessed, demons talk, and they talk through a human, and they each
have unique personalities like a human. Angels and demons are apparently
just individual minds without a body.

That's why we can see that some demons manifest certain psychological
symptoms. In his book, Msgr. Stephen Rossetti, who is a licensed
psychologist and exorcist, wrote that many demons he has encountered
have serious symptoms of psychological disorders, including narcissistic
personality disorder. This fact is noteworthy because it helps us see
that many disorders are in fact caused by moral failure, in other words
by sinning.

There's nothing wrong with the natural science of psychology, as long as
it is rooted in God and the truth about God. But modern psychology is
historically based in atheism, and in particular a denial of moral
responsibility. They say we're not sinners, we're just sick and need to
receive their therapy to properly understand how to act and behave. And
their same experts just so happen to say, and infallibly so apparently,
that belief in God is a delusion, that men can become women, that
homosexuality is perfect healthy and masturbation is not a sin but in
fact good. How interesting that these false prophets have reversed God's
morals. It's noteworthy that, many times that I've told atheists why
abortion is murder, they say that I need to be educated. I believe they
really mean indoctrinated but don't know it.

Proper and useful psychology starts with faithfully obeying God and
avoiding sin according to the Catholic definitions of good and evil.
When properly understood and followed, being a good Catholic results in
anxieties eventually disappearing, phobias fading away, and all
disorders overturned by *the peaceful fruit of righteousness*, in the
same way it's easy and pain free and even pleasant to walk when your
bones are all put back in joint.

## Makeup (TODO)

# The Pope

## The Messiah

Jesus is the Christ. Christ is Greek for Messiah. Messiah is Hebrew for
anointed. Throughout the Bible, three roles were anointed: priest,
prophet and king. The word Christ literally just means this threefold
authority.

That's why in Revelation, an angel says the authority of God's Christ
has come. It's why after Jesus rises from the dead, he says that all
authority in heaven and on earth had been given to him. He earned the
right to keep it.

There is no mention of the phrase chosen one in the Bible as far as I
know. The concept comes from the prophecy of Genesis 3:15, where a man
crushes the head of the serpent. It's prophesied more throughout the
whole Old Testament to give additional context as to who this man is.

Jesus was anointed at Bethany, and he had all three roles. As a priest,
he offered himself on the cross as the victim. As a prophet, he spoke
the word of God to the people. As a king, he created a new covenant with
a new law.

Incidentally, this is why we don't follow the law of Moses, since
Hebrews 7:12 says that when there's a change in the priesthood, there
has to be a change in the law as well.

## The First Christ

The very first instance of this authority given was in the Garden of
Eden, when Adam was given responsibility over the whole human race,
which was represented by Eve.

Adam was a priest, prophet, and king over Eve, and these three roles
were given for the benefit and protection of her and their future
children. But in all three roles, he failed.

First, he was a priest. Hebrews 10 says that the highest sacrifice we
can offer to God is our own will, and that this is precisely what Jesus
did by being obedient even unto death on the cross. Adam disobeyed God
but obeyed the voice of his wife, and by this he doomed the human race.

Second, he was a prophet. The role of a prophet is to speak the word of
God to the people. Eve did not hear the voice of God directly. First,
God created Man, then he told him the rules of the garden, and then he
created Woman.

We can tell that Adam did a terrible job telling her the rules, because
not two seconds after the dragon starts to talk to her about the rules,
she already gets it wrong, and says that they're not allowed to eat or
touch the fruit of the tree.

This must be why Jesus used memorable parables and mysterious figures to
explain the word of God, to capture our attention and be more memorable.
It's also how good parents should teach their children.

Third, Adam was a king. He was required to make rules for the sake of
protecting Eve from eating the fruit. Laws are by definition the
restriction of rights to preserve society. He could have made any
restrictive rules to save humanity from doom. Don't eat the fruit. Don't
go by the tree. Don't talk to dragons about the rules of the tree.
Anything. I can't help but wonder if he didn't want to upset her by
making rules, thinking peace means lack of conflict.

Adam didn't lose his authority just because he failed to use it. The
nature of days is that God gives us new chances to correct and amend our
past mistakes every morning. This is why we sleep and wake up, to
signify a miniature death that reminds us we have another chance to try
again.

Now, after Adam had children, his sons went out into the world and
occupied their own little territories, exercising the same authority
Adam did, but with partial jurisdiction. This is why we see Job
described as a king and sacrificing animals to God, and why Abel offered
a lamb to God.

While his sons had this authority on part of the earth, Adam retained
universal jurisdiction over the whole earth. He was the first king of
kings, whose laws his sons and their tribes all had to obey. When he
told the story of the Garden of Eden, everyone was required to believe
it. If he offered up a lamb for any of his sons, God would accept it.

## Two Kingdoms

When Adam failed, and the prophecy of the Messiah was given, two main
branches of human history were created, represented by two sons of God,
Adam and Jesus. Their two kingdoms were to grow up side by side, just
like the parable with the wheat and the weeds.

In the kingdom of Adam, which was doomed to die out at some point,
authority was first given to the sons of Adam. After the flood, this
pattern of authority continued, although within Israel, the roles of
priest, prophet and king were split up until they were reunited in
Jesus.

In the kingdom of Jesus, the authority is also given to men. This isn't
because men are inherently better than women, but simply because this is
how God divided up the roles of men and women in the Garden of Eden.

There were only two times in history that God breathed on man. The first
time is when he created Adam and gave him authority over all humanity.
The second time is when Jesus breathed on the Apostles in John 20, and
gave them the authority to forgive or retain anyone's sins.

So the role and nature of the Apostles is to be exactly what the sons of
Adam were, but in the second kingdom of God, or the second branch of
humanity, which is the Church.

We see the Apostles exercising this authority throughout the New
Testament. They preach and declare that anyone who rejects their word is
anathema. They make binding rules on the people they govern, like the
Apostle James did in the Council of Jerusalem. They continue to offer up
the Sacrifice of the Mass daily.

## The New Seth

The word Seth means appointed in Hebrew. This was to signify that when
Adam died, Seth was the new ruler of the world, the one that all would
have to obey, the new prophet whose words are an infallible retelling of
what happened in the Garden, the one to tithe to. Starting in the year
930, Seth now has universal authority over the whole world.

In the same way, Jesus made Simon the new Christ on earth over the
Kingdom of God. In John 1, Jesus gives him the name Peter, which means
rock.

Only God can give anyone a new name, and Jesus only ever gave one person
a new name, and it was Simon Peter. So when Jesus says you are Peter,
it's very significant.

Throughout the whole Old Testament, the rock meant the Christ. The first
instance is when Jacob anoints the rock in Genesis. Paul confirms this
interpretation of Scripture by literally saying that the rock was
Christ.

So when Jesus gives Simon the name Peter, or rock, he is saying that
Peter now has the authority of the Christ. Not that Peter is sinless, or
divine, but that he has the authority of priest, prophet, and king on
earth after Jesus goes up into heaven, just as Seth took over for Adam.
In other words, Peter is the vicar of Christ on earth.

And Jesus says that the seat of Moses retains the authority of Moses
after he dies, so whoever sits in it has his authority. In the same way,
whoever sits in the seat of Peter has the same authority as Peter, who
died in Rome, which means the seat of Rome has the authority of the
vicar of Christ.

The Apostles were the first Bishops, and their successors are the modern
day Bishops. Each of them retain this same authority, but the Pope, or
the Bishop of Rome, has higher authority over them, even though he has
the same nature. Just as Adam was the same nature as his sons but had
higher authority than them and over them, Peter was a bishop, but has a
higher authority than other bishops and over them.

## Bishops

As a king in the Kingdom of God, Peter has the right to make laws that
are binding on all Christians. Jesus confirms this when he gives him the
power of binding and loosing. So when the Pope says you have to go to
Mass on Sundays and holy days of obligation, it becomes a mortal sin not
to.

As prophet, he has the authority to speak the word of God to the people.
This doesn't mean he is infallible any time he speaks. If Seth were to
give his opinion on any theological point, it would be just that, an
opinion.

But when he tells the rest of humanity anything about God that Adam told
him infallibly, it becomes binding and infallible. This is the same as
when the Pope makes an ex cathedra statement, which means from the chair
of Peter.

As a priest, he is to offer up the same sacrifice of the Mass every day,
which is talked about more in the section on the Eucharist. This
authority is also where we get the concepts of indulgences and the
Church being the treasury of grace.

# The Kingdom of God

## The Seven Sacraments

In the kingdom of Adam, there are seven thing needed for individuals and
society to remain alive. We need to be born, to eat, to become adults,
to have a government, a justice system, a military, and families that
create more people.

Not all people need to become government officials, but we do need some
people to fulfill that role. Yet everyone needs to be born and eat food
daily.

In the same way, for the kingdom of God to remain on earth, and for
individuals within it to remain alive within it, we have the same exact
needs. Everyone needs baptism, and we need priests, but not everyone is
called to be one.

Kingdom of Adam Kingdom of God

Birth Baptism

Eating Eucharist

Adulthood Confirmation

Government Priesthood

Justice System Confession

Marriage Matrimony

Medic Last Rites

I have a theory that throughout the gospel of John, the 7 miracles refer
to the Seven Sacraments, not in the sense of providing that they're
true, since John was already writing to people who knew them to be true,
but in the sense of more deeply explaining what they do for us.

## Baptism

You have to be born to be part of a kingdom, and Jesus says that unless
you are born of spirit and water, you cannot enter the kingdom of God.
When you are baptized in water, God gives you a spiritual baptism from
heaven, you are born again, made a child of God, made a member of the
body of Christ, and your sins are forgiven.

Some people say water baptism isn't necessary, but this is honestly such
a cope. Scripture is abundantly clear that you have to be water
baptized. Peter says that the flood of Noah is referring to water
baptism. After his inaugural sermon on Pentecost, over 3,000 people were
water baptized that day. In Acts, every single time anyone became a
Christian, they were baptized. Paul said that even though his primary
duty was to preach the gospel, he also baptized when necessary. The
thief on the cross couldn't be baptized because he was like 53 days too
early, since water baptism didn't start until Pentecost. Paul rebaptized
people in the baptism of Jesus when he found out they only had John's
baptism.

It's true that for a martyr for Jesus who wasn't baptized, we all know
they're in heaven, but this is because they're baptized in their own
blood, and their death for Jesus is their public confession and proof of
their love.

This is not to say God can't give anyone the same graces of baptism
before the person is baptized. In the very early church, there was a man
who was so noble of character that, when the bishop died, the people
demanded that this man become the new bishop, and he accepted the
proposal, so he was promptly baptized and then ordained.

In fact, Jesus comes and cleanses a leper and then tells him to go and
show himself to the priest. He received the grace of God before the
proper time, but we see that Jesus gave this to him knowing he was not
opposed to doing things in the proper order and way.

Any Trinitarian baptism with water is a valid baptism, even when it's
performed outside the Catholic Church. This means that a large number of
non-Catholics are valid members of the body of Christ. That said, the
kingdom of God is a very real kingdom, with a citizenship that comes
with rights and privileges.

You can be born outside a kingdom and wander in, or be born inside it by
non-citizens. In both cases, you're not a valid citizen. This is why
non-Catholics can't receive Holy Communion or go to Confession until
they're received into the Church, which is the equivalent of having
citizenship.

In John 9, the man born blind is given sight only after he washes in the
pool called Siloam, which means sent. When we are baptized, God sends us
on a mission in life. In the same way that you receive natural gifts at
birth, and have to discover and cultivate them throughout life to figure
out how to use them for the benefit of mankind, you're given certain
virtues at baptism in a special way, and you have to discover and
cultivate them in order to discern what exactly God wants you to do for
his kingdom. This takes time.

## Confirmation

When a person reaches the age of majority or adulthood, they're free to
walk throughout society in their own right, and they're given new rights
and responsibilities in order to help mankind with whatever gifts
they've been given.

In the same way, Confirmation is when a person is made spiritually
mature by God, so that they can go out into the world and make the
Kingdom of God a better place using the gifts they've discovered and
cultivated.

Life is difficult and full of hardships, so when the bishop or priest
administers the sacrament of confirmation, it goes along with a little
punch in the face. I'm totally serious.

Because only adults can become government officials, only confirmed
Catholics can become priests or bishops or get married in the church.

## Eucharist

God told Adam and Eve that in the day they sinned, they would surely
die. They should have died the day they ate the forbidden fruit, and
it's been puzzling to people that they didn't. The solution is in
Genesis 3:21.

After they sinned, God gave them animal skins, probably clothing made
from the sheepskin and wool of a lamb, since it would be fitting that
God prepare the world to understand that Jesus was the lamb of God. It
would also explain why Abel was a keeper of sheep and offered one to
God.

So when they sinned, blood was shed, since forgiveness of sins requires
the shedding of blood. Their souls could not be forgiven by the blood of
an animal, since animals are on a lower level and nature than humans.
But at least it would allow them to physically survive one more day,
giving them time to repent and be spiritually forgiven.

Because of this, every person needs to eat regularly. Every time we eat,
something living needs to die so that we can live a little longer. No
matter

## Priesthood (TODO)

## Confession (TODO)

## Matrimony (TODO)

## Last Rites

Life actually has a final boss fight that we all have to face, and it's
a literal dragon. On our death bed, he will attack us more than he ever
has before, and we have to fight and win.

There are only two moments of your life that count, now, and the hour of
your death. Who you are the moment you die is who you will be forever.
Every moment before that defines who you will be in that moment. The
only moment we can ever control is now. So now is the time to decide who
you will be forever, but the final now is the hour of our death. This is
why the devil attacks us then more than ever.

The Church is not simply on earth. On Earth, the Church is called the
Church Militant, because we're fighting the battle. This is the only
time we can gather up our arms for the fight. Once we're in heaven, we
can no longer purchase new swords and shields, we can only use the ones
we have.

Each moment that we resist temptation, we're acquiring new arms for
heaven. This is what Jesus means when he says to sell all that we have
and purchase swords.

Once we're in heaven, all the swords we purchased with all our suffering
and endurance on earth becomes something we can use to fight off the
devil from those we connect with most, whether it's our literal blood
relatives, or those who are going through the same struggles we did.
This is why it's a good idea to have a patron saint that you strongly
relate to.

If it's so difficult to resist temptation now for so many of us, why do
we imagine it will be easier at the hour of our death? It's at that
moment that the dragon knows his time is shortest, so he puts all he has
into the fight, along with some demons that he brings along specifically
for the job.

The devil is not all-powerful, he is limited and has finite strength
like we do. But he is more powerful than us, and being a purely
psychological being without a physical body, he does not experience
fatigue in the same way we do.

So if we want to win this boss fight, this final battle, we need all the
extra help we can get. This is first of all why we ask Mary to pray for
us now and at the hour of our death.

But Jesus provided special help for this. James talks about it when he
says that if any of you are sick, let the priest come and anoint him so
he may be healed. This is the Sacrament called Last Rites, or Extreme
Unction, or Anointing of the Sick. It's essentially the medics during
this final battle, that give us renewed strength and fix our shields.

# Notes

baptism		birth
eucharist	food
confession	sorry
confirmation	adulthood
holy orders	government
matrimony	marriage
last rites	medic

Ch 2	turning water to wine	matrimony
Ch 4	healing official's son	last rites	x
Ch 5	healing paralyzed man	holy orders	x
Ch 6	miracle of the loaves	eucharist
Ch 6	walking water		confirmation	x
Ch 9	healing blind man	baptism
Ch 11	raising Lazarus		confession	x

structure of book
- intro
- religion is the most important
- which religion is true (later???)
- purpose of life
- new theology with garden of Eden as basis

sudoku bible

ocd is a result of trying to make the results perfect without the right cause

people who reply with "you as well" instead of "you too" are confusing to me
i think they're just trying to imitate what they think sounds smart
its the same with people who refuse to put "for" at the end of a sentence
"what are you here for" is a perfectly valid sentence
a guy who likes latin said you cant do it because latin doesn't allow it
what makes him authoritative? he didn't create english

if a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years like a day,
then the thousand years in revelation 20 could just be one 24 hour day.

the bowls of gods wrath dont need to be sequential, they can be concurrent.
the darkness doesn't need to be physical darkness, it could be figurative.

"a man's measure, that is, an angel's" helps explain genesis 6
here, a man means an angel, or rather, a man as holy and pure as an angel.
jesus says resurrected people will be made like the angels in heaven.
jesus in luke says they are equal to angels and are sons of god.
the sons of god doesn't mean literal angels, it means those who do god's will.

when people interpret your words or actions uncharitably against reason,
dont try to defend yourself to them, they're showing you their character.
if you try to justify yourself to them and get their approval,
they will make use of this to get you to bend to their will.
by assuming the worst of you without strong justification,
they are showing you their own red flags, its meant to be a lesson to you.

the world, the kingdom of the dragon, is exactly like the mafia
they will give you peace and security through injustices and these alone
but the moment you reject injustice and accept truth and goodness you're out

everything goes back to the garden of eden
all human decisions and interactions are replaying it
for a man this means he must become like jesus, the new adam
he must do what adam failed to do, which is what jesus did
he must not be caught sleeping but remain awake like in gethsemane
he must stand bold in the face of threats and persecutions and promises
he must not sell out to injustice but stand up for whats genuinely right
he must be completely dependent on no one so that he can be for all people
he must depend solely on god and lead all others to the same sole dependency
he will have to lose everything by standing on principle alone
but he will gain it all back and it will all be far more than worth it

The most useful two functions of the kingdom of the dragon is to produce people and to convince those people that the kingdom of the dragon is corrupt and empty of any possibility of genuine happiness so that they defect to the kingdom of God.

trump no christian virtues tv show humility frowned upon

sleeping cover with blanket like burial cloth

joseph probably crafted beautiful things from salvaged goods

jesus spoke and nobody understood him until he died and rose again
the mass starts with the bible readings and then the crucified jesus
we speak the truth with our life and words, and it influences after death

injustice from people can be used to accomplish gods justice on earth
people can do the right things from gods perspective for evil motives

is a better economy really our hope?
are the rich really better off than the poor?
do they have fewer drug addictions and less crime?
its just different drugs and different crimes
the rich and poor alike all have the same spiritual poverty

diversity of ways and reasons people convert
reflects our inherent diversity
filioque
edith stein
eucharistic miracles

marriage is consent; st paul clearly st Thomas Aquinas st francis de sales

mary had the moon under her feet; we are not sinless

for a while i wondered where are you christ
he seems to say into my imagination im not in pleasure but in pain
there is necessary pain in life, and that is the cross. that's where he is.
when we do what we must do, we find truth, we find jesus, we find god.
and sometimes doing what we must means taking a long overdue punishment.
this is what death is at the end of our lives. this is why it's at the end.

i have no desire or interest in committing suicide, ever, and i never have
i love life, and everything about life, all that's good and beautiful
but most of all i love sharing the beauty and wonder of life with others
theres nothing like showing someone an inspiring movie or beautiful music
the difficulty i have had for a few years is that no one wants me around
but there are other people. one day i will find those with similar interests
only a brood of vipers accused jesus of threatening suicide in the bible

fulton sheen said knowing in marriage is exactly the same as knowing god
to complete the mystical marriage act, the heart must be unlocked from within
completing this act requires trust, ...
in marriage we trust and are vulnerable, then receive pleasure, then pain
with god, we trust and are vulnerable, then receive pain, then pleasure
when we trust that the pain is going to be worthwhile, we are proven right

i have never been able to fully convince myself this life is a good paradise
the few times i was able to convince myself mostly, god reminded me otherwise
when a soldier denies that he's in a battle, he receives many mortal wounds
some people are built to be particularly fierce warriors of god's kingdom
when they deny this war call from god, they fall into the most shameful sins

scientists actually know relatively little about nature
they still dont know why we age, sleep, cant live past 120


laws will be consistent in the next world so we can have predictability

progress
what's the point of progressing? what are we heading towards?
this life is the same, human nature is the same; we're just continuing.
by progress people usually mean moral progress, ie. changing morals.
there is a need to deepen understanding of morals, but without changing it.
it's like getting more digits of pi, more accuracy and precision.
it's not saying wait a minute we were wrong all along, pi starts with 4.
people redefine morals so they can sleep at night with a guilty conscience.
they dont like god's morals but need to convince everyone else to agree.
they hate people who stand up for god's morals and try to discredit them.

sons of god meant those who do god's will.
daughters of men meant those who imitate the mistake of adam and eve.
john explains this in john 8 and interprets gen 6 and job 1.
there were no fallen angels mating with humans, it was mixed moral marriages.
the sons of god in job probably means people offering sacrifices to god.
job probably lived around the time of peleg and lived probably 210 years.

thank god there's a hell.
that's not the same thing as wishing anyone is in hell, or condemning someone.
it's good and natural to hate injustices, especially done against you.
but the problem is we are often poor, partial judges of such injustices.
we are far more lenient toward ourselves and unforgiving with others.
it's not inherently virtuous to hate injustice and sin.
even the demons and damned souls in hell hate the sins of others against them.
but we can be glad there's no sin in heaven, no evildoers, and no evil.
we can be glad that the bad things that happen here don't happen in heaven.
and we can be sure that if someone is in heaven, they have repented of evil.
so we have to hope and pray that those who sin on earth repent before death.
we can never hate others. the moment we hate them, we deserve to be in hell.
wishing someone doesn't go to heaven or goes to hell is the same as hating.
to say we dont want someone in our life is dangerously close to hating them.
how can we be friends with them in heaven if we refuse to be around them here?
countless people say a person should be banished from society for their sins.
they feign that it's for the good of society, and maybe temporarily it is.
but a Christian must believe that jesus can transform a sinner into a saint.
"it's a mortal sin to even suspect a virtuous person of grave sin."
we must find a way to excuse someone's actions, even if they're inexcusable.
often times the good in someone's heart is waiting for a jesus to awaken it.
forgiveness and kindness has nearly miraculous power to transform evil hearts.
if a person is sinning, we don't have to deny the sinfulness.
but we should not judge their soul based on the sins they're committing.
we can't possibly know their heart and their secret thoughts and fears.
everyone is fighting many demons, some more than others. we should HELP them.
and we definitely should not judge people based on sins they did long ago.
judging character is good and important, but must be done justly and truly.
"if someone gets drunk once, we can't call them a drunkard."
if someone does evil, it's no help to them to condemn their actions.
pray for them and be a friend to them.


did mary remain sinless?
* peanuts joke
Does manifesting work?
mary wrote Hebrews
adam was napping
adam was the first christ
  seth is the new peter
adam and eve ate lamb meat
religion two things definition good means obtain 
enoch didn't die
harlot of Babylon is feminism
who is the queen of heaven
  sun vs moon
  song of songs 6:10
  rev 12 is about marys whole life
who are the nephilim
  the sons of god and daughters of men
  inversion of authority
the bribed guards were executed
how messiah means chosen one
did adam and eve have bellybuttons
marys assumption
eucharist is not cannibalism
makeup is a sin
bible commentaries
speeding is a sin
[catholic jokes]
john 20:23
ectopic pregnancies
thomas merton
eastern religions
zombies


spirit of levity has taken over the world.

zero dependencies is the goal.
complete freedom to do god's will.
jmj each had this.

do the thing right in front of you. and do it well.
accept all the limitations god placed on you.
limitation breeds creativity.

ear of corn. listening to god is the first step in bearing fruit.

[meh]
the simplest form of government and source of authority:
adam and eve leave the garden. they must work together to survive.
if they split apart, they create two separate societies.
remaining together inherently creates a single society of two persons.
as they remain together, they must make decisions together to survive.
the decisions are going to inherently be restrictive of free will.
each will have to do what they might not want to do in order to survive.
each might need to hunt or build a tent or forage or find shelter.
this necessity is imposed on us by god, and limits our possible actions.
this is the source of law: it is the same as the laws of logic.
if you do this, this will happen, otherwise it won't.

[meh]
people stick out their tongues when teasing.
they stick out their tongues when being goofy, i.e. the sin of levity.
they stick out their tongues when downright sinning in various ways.
the devil is a serpent with a particularly pronounced tongue.
the tongue is called an evil member by st. james in the bible.
the first temptation of humanity was by the tongue of the serpent.
the first sin of humanity was by the tongue of eve eating the fruit.
the first temptation by humans was the tongue of eve speaking to adam.
the first rejection of guilt by humanity was their tongues blaming others.
the tongue isn't inherently evil, but its presence is often indicates evil.
the tongue is used both for tasting and for speaking.
the saints have said that speaking evil of others is a form of cannibalism.
if they disagree on any decision, one of the two decisions has to be taken.
not taking one of the decisions is just making a third decision: delaying.

how many women does it take to change a lightbulb?
none, LED lightbulbs dont need to be changed for about 40 years.

Mary's temptation was like eve's.
would you break your vow?
would you do evil to make good come from it?
the devil's lie is: you can have your cake and eat it too.
you can have pleasure now. there's no need for sacrifice.
you can bring the savior into the world via pleasure, no need to keep a vow.
good things will happen, it's finally the end of your suffering and trials.
this was Mary's temptation as much as eve's. eve failed, mary passed.

someone on social media said we laugh so that we dont cry
this was on a joke video that tried to make the best of a bad situation
this principle is the height of despair
when things are so bad and there seems to be no hope, we try to have fun
this is why the joker has become so popular of a character

thinking is a very real form of interacting with the logos
everyone has access to learn about god by simply reasoning



god promised he would provide food water and clothing being all we need
jesus said your father knows you need food and clothing and will provide it
paul said if we have food and clothing this will be enough
paul admitted he was homeless
jesus was homeless and slept in the mount of olives
we are not guaranteed a house or even a roof over our heads in this life
st francis of assisi and his followers made straw mud stick huts to live in
st benedict joseph labre chose to be homeless for the last decade of his life,
	sleeping on the ground and mostly in the open air,
	never asking for alms, and eating what was given out of charity,
	or eating whatever food he could find in the garbage,
	owning only the clothes on his back rosaries and a few holy books
st benedict chose to live in a cave for three years
st Anthony of the desert chose to live in a tomb for 15 years
the homeless need spiritual help, encouragement, hope
they need someone to live with them without addiction
they need someone to live in the same poverty and help them to love it

francis of assisi rebuilt a church by himself with gifted stones
monks today have lost seemingly all zeal and faith in gods providence
monks used to beg for alms for the poor, now it seems they beg for themselves
monks used to live in hardship and wilderness, now they live in cozy mansions
its true that im thinking of two specific Franciscan monasteries but still

the only useful solution to hardship is to voluntarily take it on
this is true whether homelessness poverty incels ___
take a hardship you're facing, and instead of working against it, own it
this is part of the point of the movie Our God's Brother, another must watch
if you cant afford a home, take this as a sign from god toward another path
live intentionally with less property and seek out god's will within that
if you cant find someone to marry, resolve to be a child of mary and joseph
all god's limitations are guardrails protecting you from many paths to hell
maybe you cant find someone to marry because everyone you might is evil
maybe you cant afford a house because you would end up just like the rich man



randomness entrusted to god is answered inasmuch as its needed and believed in
st francis of assisi opened the bible three times and found his call that way
st francis de sales fell three times and his sword became the cross
the apostles chose by lots Matthias to replace judas
if you make the sign of the cross and open the bible in faith, god teaches you

social media plans are an attempt to prove to ourselves we have power.
if we can collectively get vexbolts to 10m and mass unfollow him,
or if we can collectively agree to not like a user's post and it works,
then we prove to ourselves that collectively we have power.
why stop here? why not use this power to get rid of corruption?

* Modern priests who say certain sinful acts are not sinful and use saints to prove it like JPII or Aquinas
* Theologians who said Teresa of Avila was exaggerating when she said priests said mortal sins were not mortal sins and venial sins were not sins at all
* Priest who told me you can lie under oath and it's not a sin
* Priests who thought John Bosco was genuinely insane and tried to have him locked up just because he trusted God would provide for the needy through him which he always did

* What if Carter OP
* Zelda as playable hero
* Every marvel female hero?
* Star wars witch/heroes

Wikipedia is liberal
Truth is evident to all who love the truth
But those who hate truth and want it to be different are always trying to rewrite truth in books, getting degrees to give themselves credibility to themselves and others, and trying to win debates
There's no such thing as winning debates 


provide value to the world.
keep following your interests.
god gave them to you for a reason.
he can make good use out of hobbies eventually.
i wasted a year or two on TikTok and he helped me make a book out of it.

the kingdom of god and the kingdom of the dragon.
they branch off at adam and jesus.
they both start with patriarchies but dont both end with them.
because the defining feature of the kingdom of god is a united will.
and the kingdom of the dragon is differing wills, discord, disunity.
this is why democracy is inherently more useful in the kingdom of the dragon,
but the kingdom of god is an absolute monarchy with the pope at the head.

please and thank you.
asking permission to do something.
dean withers.

common similarities in character tied to morals.
ties between makeup, abortion, toxic masculinity, true crime drama, etc.

evangelism is all wrong with protties.

priests are the true therapists.
therapy is secular confession.

mary didn't sin.

enoch didn't sin.
its true paul said all sinned.
but paul also said the wages of sin is death.
you cant have both be absolute, since enoch simply didn't die.
people have to choose which one they prefer to take absolutely.
those who prefer to say enoch sinned do so to excuse themselves.
if enoch sinned despite being canonized so gloriously, the bar isn't so high.

Elijah didn't die either so he didn't sin either.
first, people say Elijah sinned because he ran from jezebel.
jesus says when they reject you, flee to another town,
not out of fear but because its useless to waste even one more second there.
they saw the biggest miracle the world ever saw and weren't converted.
so it was useless to remain.
the second sin they accuse him of was asking god to take his life.
he wasn't suicidal and wouldn't have taken his own life.
he was saying god why leave me here where no one good is left to convert.
and god said dont worry theres 7k more good people left,
you still have a mission to fulfill, and he said ok and accepted it.

eucharistic experience. overwhelmed with fear of exploding.

Minecraft is popular because it is a miniature version of creation.
we love to create and organize and beauty the world around us.
we love to create our own worlds with our own logic.
this is why video games in general are popular.
it's why some people love making their own video games. or using mods.

distress for doing evil
doesn't mean god causes it
but that logic itself causes it
and god being logic wont back down or bend to our will
in other words we cant reshape reality to fit our desires
thus it also says peace for those who do good
just like Hebrews says discipline produces peaceful fruit of righteousness

francis of assisi was homeless lived w lepers and built a church by himself
Franciscans today are not built the same anymore
young men need to be more like him again

a government is a body of people
and a leader inherently is the head
in a body there are many members
men are naturally heads and women are naturally hearts
so it makes sense that men will have more grace to lead in general policies
and women will have more grace to lead in compassion-based endeavors
but the nature of compassion is that it must be given personally
for if a person is helped in a cold bureaucratic way they receive no love
but if a person is helped in their needs personally via love they receive love
so policies should not be made on an official level to help the poor and sick
its called hospital because its based on hospitality which must be personal
its called nursing because its naturally a maternal function and desire
women should self organize to help the poor and the sick
and they would be able to afford to if the economy wasn't so corrupt
therefore men should lead in government which should have basic policies
and women should lead in organizing charities to help the sick and poor

the eagle flew at me. almost directly hit me, but went right past.

mel Gibson should have included the words. hes a heretic now.

social media is led by the spirit of the world.
world, devil, flesh = social media, occult, self indulgence

being unprepared for malice causes trauma.
love of god is only way to prevent trauma.
we must recognize that god is good and loves you and will mitigate trauma.
without trust in god's love and goodness and justice and mercy, we suffer.
likewise discipline without love causes trauma but with love doesn't.
the love doesn't even have to be manifest or explicit in the moment.
seeing the crucifixion would traumatize if not for christ's last words.

marys temptation was to break her vow of virginity.
god sent Gabriel with ambiguous words as the temptation,
instead of sending the devil with malicious deceitful words.
the temptation of eve and mary was to live for self or for other.

true crime dramas are red flags.
women aren't sure whether adam or the dragon is evil.
they are inherently much more easily tempted to fear.


someone told me "he could have done anything else but he did this"
i didn't want to say im doing good or the right thing to myself
but the fact that someone else said it gives a little encouragement
if the outcome is that i should become complacent or fruitless its a problem
but if the outcome is that i have more trust that god is helping me
and that he will continue to help me do good and be good
then i will actively cooperate with it and actually try to do the right thing.
this is hope.




Introduction
	The Purpose of This Book
A New Theology
	The Necessity of Religiosity
	The Purpose of Life
	The Origin of All Heresies
	Good and Bad
	Grace and Character
	The Restrainer
	The First Lamb of God
	Enoch and Elijah
	The Author of Hebrews
The Cult of Secularism
	Psychology
	Welfare
	Makeup
	Veganism
	Video Games
	Toxic Masculinity
	Abortion
	Tarot
	Santa Claus
A Brief Defense of Catholicism
	Disclaimer
	Scientific Evidence
	Historical Evidence
	Biblical Evidence
	Logical Evidence
	Moral Evidence
Responses to Common Objections
	Relationship over Religion
	Water Baptism
	Indulgences
	Intolerance
	Canon of Scripture
	Necromancy
	The Rosary





Purity

	Perpetual virginity.
	Necessity of virginity.
	Benefit of virginity.
	Evil to use sex to control.

Perfection

	Enoch and Elijah.
	New Eve.
	Bar set high.
	Be perfect as the father.

Masculinity

	Video games.
	Control = abuse = authority.
	Emasculation.
	Rejection of Adam=Father=Jesus.
	Transgenderism.
	Spanking=evil.

Femininity

	Reason and intuition,
	Word and Spirit.
	Tarot, mysticism.
	Evil queen,
	female priests,
	radical feminists.

Power

	Voice. Expertise, psychology, education, PhD. Control, therapy.

Paradise

	Welfare.
	Avoidance of all suffering.
	Veganism, sinlessness.
	Pornography.
	Worship of Eve.
	Makeup.
	Homosexuality, transgenderism.
	Abortion, anti-science.
	Denial of responsibility.
	Split personality, nudity, violence.

Hebrews

	Author.
	Admonishment.
	Exhortation.
	Pushing forward.
	Letting go.
	Mother of the 7.
	Possessed by the Spirit.
	Blood of Christ, Mother of God, Name of Jesus.

